



Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 01
Code Adoption
Sections:
1. 01. 010 Adoption
1. 01. 020 Title - Citation - Reference
1. 01. 030 Codification Authority
1. 01. 040 Ordinances Passed Prior to Adoption of the Code
1. 01. 050 Reference Applies to All Amendments
1. 01. 060 Title, Chapter, and Section Headings
1. 01. 070 Reference to Specific Ordinances
1. 01. 080 Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations
1. 01. 090 Effective Date
1. 01. 100 Constitutionality
Section 1. 01. 010 Adoption
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022. 1- 50022. 8 and 50022. 10 of the
Government Code, there is hereby adopted the "Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development
Code" as published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington, together with those
secondary codes adopted by reference as authorized by the California State Legislature, save
and except those portions of the secondary codes as are deleted or modified by the provisions of
the "Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development Code."
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 020 Title - Citation - Reference
This code shall be known as the " Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development Code"
and it shall be sufficient to refer to said code as the " Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista
Development Code" in any prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any
proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to,
amendment to, correction or repeal of the " Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development
Code." Further reference may be made to the titles, chapters, sections and subsections of the
Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development Code" and such references shall apply to that
numbered title, chapter, section or subsection as it appears in the code.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 030 Codification Authority
This code consists of all the regulatory and penal ordinances and certain of the
administrative ordinances of the City of Vista, California, codified pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 50022. 1- 50022.8 and 50022. 10 of the Government Code.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 040 Ordinances Passed Prior to Adoption of the Code
The last ordinance included in this code is Ordinance 90- 47, passed January 8, 1991.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
1. 01 ( 1) Vista 3/28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 1. 01. 050 Reference Applies to all Amendments
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the " Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista
Development Code" or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the City of Vista, California,
the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or
hereafter made.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 060 Title, Chapter, and Section Headings
Title, chapter, and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title,
chapter or section hereof.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 070 Reference to Specific Ordinances
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to,
designated by number or otherwise, and which are included within the code, but such reference
shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this code.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 080 Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby of any ordinance
or part or portion of any ordinance of the City of Vista shall in any manner affect the prosecution
for violations of ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date, hereof,
nor be construed as a waiver of any license, fee, or penalty at said effective date due and unpaid
under such ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such ordinances
relating to the collection of any such license, fee, or penalty, or the penal validity of any bond or
cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance
and all rights and obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 090 Effective Date
This code shall become effective on the date the ordinance adopting this code as the
Vista Municipal Code" and " Vista Development Code" shall become effective.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
Section 1. 01. 100 Constitutionality
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this code. The Council hereby declares that it would have passed this code, and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid or
unconstitutional, and if for any reason this code should be declared invalid or unconstitutional,
then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.
Ord. No. 91- 2, Enacted, 02/ 26/ 91)
1. 01 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 04
General Provisions
Sections:
1. 04.010 Designation and Citation of Code
1. 04.020 Definitions
1. 04.030 Interpretation of Language
1. 04.040 Definitions for Material Adopted from County Code
1. 04.050 Reference Includes Amendments
1. 04.060 Continuations of Existing Ordinances
1. 04.070 Catchlines of Sections
1. 04.080 Repeal of Ordinances
1. 04.090 Notation of Amendments to Code
1. 04. 100 Severability
Section 1. 04.010 Designation and Citation of Code
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections constitute and
be shall be designated as the "Vista Municipal Code" and may be so cited. This code may also
be cited as the "Vista City Code."
Prior Code 1- 1)
Section 1. 04.020 Definitions
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this code, are defined as provided
in this section, unless the context requires otherwise or a different meaning is specifically
provided:
City," " the City" or "this City," means and shall be construed as if followed by the words
of Vista." Further, " City" means the area within the territorial city limits of the City of Vista and
such territory outside of the city over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional provision or any law.
City Hall" shall mean the business offices of the City of Vista located at 200 Civic
Center Drive, Vista, CA 92084- 6275.
Code," " the code" or" this code," means the code of the City of Vista.
Council" or " City Council" means the City Council of the City of Vista.
County," " the county" or "this county," means the County of San Diego.
Day" means the period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
Daytime" means the period of time between sunrise and sunset.
Goods" means and includes wares or merchandise.
License Collector" means the City Clerk.
Month" means a calendar month.
Nighttime" means the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
Oath" means and includes an affirmation.
Officers" and " Departments of the City," means officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code are officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees of the City, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Operate" means and includes carry on, keep, conduct or maintain.
Owner," applied to a building or land, means and shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant, tenant in common, or joint tenant of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person" means and includes any person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
1. 04 ( l) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
business trust, company or corporation, and any municipal, political or governmental
corporation, district, body or agency, other than the City.
Personal property" means and includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
Preceding" and " following" mean the next before and next after, respectively.
Process" means and includes a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings of either a civil or criminal nature.
Property" means and shall include real and personal property.
Real Property" means and shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sale" means and includes any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
Shall" is mandatory and " May" is permissive.
Signature" or " Subscription" includes a mark when the signer or subscriber cannot
write, such signer's or subscriber' s name being written near the mark by a witness who writes
his own name near the signer's or subscriber' s name; but, a signature or subscription by mark
can be acknowledged or can serve as a signature or subscription to a sworn statement only
when two witnesses so sign their own names thereto.
State," " the state" or "this state," means the State of California.
Street" means and includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, sidewalks, parkways, curbs or other public ways in this city which have been
or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property as
designated in any law of this state.
Tenant" or " occupant," applied to a building or land, means and shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Week" means and consists of seven consecutive days.
Writing" means and includes any form of recorded message capable of
comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English language unless it
is expressly provided otherwise.
Year" means a calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
Prior Code 1- 2; Ord. No. 2016- 8, Amended 6/ 24/ 16)
Section 1. 04.030 Interpretation of Language
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the City, the following rules shall
be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City
Council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
A. Computation of Time. The time in which any act provided by law is to be done is
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day is a holiday and
then it is also excluded.
B. Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
C. Joint Authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or
officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
D. Number. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural, the singular.
E. Official Time. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they refer to
Pacific Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time, as may be in current use.
F. Prohibited Acts. Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful, it
includes causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing such act or omission.
G. Tenses. The present tense includes the past and future, and the future includes
the present.
H. Territorial Limitation. This code refers only to the omission or commission of acts
within the territorial limits of the city and to that territory outside of the city over which the City
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the Constitution, or any law, or by reason of ownership or
1. 04 ( 2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
control of property.
Prior Code 1- 2)
Section 1. 04.040 Definitions for Material Adopted from County Code
Whenever any provisions of the San Diego County Code have been adopted by
reference by any provisions of this Code or any other ordinance of the City, unless the context
requires otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
Board of Supervisors" means the City Council.
County," or " County of San Diego" means the City.
County Officer, Employee" means that whenever any county officer or county
employee is referred to, such reference shall be to the appropriate or designated officer of the
City.
Unincorporated Territory" means the incorporated territory of the city.
Prior Code 1- 3)
Section 1. 04.050 Reference Includes Amendments
Whenever a reference is made to any portion of this code, or to any other ordinances of
the City, the reference applies to all amendments and additions now or hereafter made.
Prior Code 1- 4)
Section 1. 04.060 Continuations of Existing Ordinances
The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the same as those
of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this code, shall be considered as
continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Prior Code 1- 5)
Section 1. 04.070 Catchlines of Sections
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such
sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Prior Code 1- 6)
Section 1. 04.080 Repeal of Ordinances
A. The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at
the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
B. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the
repeal, for any offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Prior Code 1- 7)
Section 1. 04.090 Notation of Amendments to Code
Upon the adoption of any amendment or addition to this code, or upon the repeal of any
of its provisions, the City Clerk shall certify thereto and shall make an appropriate notation in the
volumes of the code of the taking of such action, noting thereon the number of the ordinances
pursuant to which such action is taken. Duly certified copies of every ordinance making
1. 04 ( 3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
changes in this code shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk in books for such purpose, duly
indexed for ready reference.
Prior Code 1- 8)
Section 1. 04. 100 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this code is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code. The
City Council declares that it would have adopted this code and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Prior Code 1- 9)
1. 04 ( 4) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 08
Elections
Sections:
1. 08.010 Filing Fees
1. 08.020 Candidate's Statement; Estimated Costs
1. 08.030 Date of General Municipal Election
Section 1. 08.010 Filing Fees
A fee of $ 25.00 is established for filing a candidate' s nomination papers for elective
office at municipal elections. The filing fee shall be paid to the City Clerk by each candidate for
an elective office at the time the candidate files his or her nomination papers. The City Clerk
shall cause all such fees collected to be deposited immediately to the General Fund of the City.
Prior Code 2- 12. 1; Ord. No. 73-42, Amended 10/ 30/ 73; Ord. No. 75-42, Amended 9/ 8/ 75; Ord. No. 2003-
8, Amended, 04/ 22/ 03)
Section 1. 08.020 Candidate's Statement; Estimated Costs
Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 13307, as amended, at a regular meeting
held prior to the date on which the nominating period opens for any regular municipal election or
any special or emergency municipal election for the purpose of electing candidates for the
offices of Mayor or City Council, the City Clerk shall prepare and present to the City Council an
estimate of the total cost of printing, handling, translating, and mailing the candidates'
statements filed pursuant to the Elections Code. The City Council may determine, by adoption
of resolution effective prior to the opening of the nominating period, ( 1) whether the limitation
upon the length of the candidate' s statements shall be increased from 200 to 400 words; and ( 2)
the amount of the pro rata share of the total cost that each candidate filing a statement shall be
required to pay in advance to the City. The City Clerk shall collect the amount so determined, if
any, from each candidate filing a candidate' s statement, as a condition of having the candidate' s
statement included in the voter's pamphlet.
Prior Code 2- 12. 2; Ord. 75-42, Amended 9/ 8/ 75; Ord. No. 82- 1, Amended 1/ 11/ 82; Ord. No. 86- 38,
Amended 7/ 22/ 86; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 96- 13, Amended, 07/ 09/ 96)
Section 1. 08.030 Date of General Municipal Election
Pursuant to Section 36503.5 of the California Government Code, the General Municipal
Election for the City shall be held on the same day as the day of the statewide General Election.
Prior Code 2- 12. 3; Ord. No. 82- 33, Amended 9/ 27/ 82; Ord. No. 96- 13, Amended 6/ 25/ 96)
1. 08 ( l) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 10
Mailed Ballot Elections
Sections:
1. 10.010 Mailed Ballot Elections
1. 10.020 Matters Approved for Mailed Ballot Elections or Proceedings
1. 10.030 Time for Conducting a Mailed Ballot Election or an Assessment Ballot
Proceeding
1. 10.040 Procedures for Conducting Mailed Ballot Elections or Proceedings
1. 10.050 Enabling Authority
Section 1. 10.010 Mailed Ballot Elections
The City Council may order an election for any purpose set forth in Section 1. 10. 020
below to be conducted by mailed ballot. The City Council shall determine whether or not to
conduct an election by mailed ballot as authorized by this chapter at the time the election is
called. A determination by the City Council to conduct an election by mailed ballot pursuant to
this section shall be made by adopting a resolution of the City Council approved by at least
three affirmative votes at a regular or special meeting.
Ord. No. 2002- 4, Added, 02/ 12/ 02)
Section 1. 10.020 Matters Approved for Mailed Ballot Elections or Proceedings
The following matters may be approved by the City Council for a mailed ballot election
or proceeding:
A. Any election required by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, or any
statute or law of the State of California, to approve a special or general tax.
B. Any election required or authorized by Article XIIID of the California
Constitution to approve a property- related fee or charge.
C. Any assessment ballot proceeding required or authorized by Article XIIID of
the California Constitution; provided that such proceeding shall be denominated as an
assessment ballot proceeding" rather than an election, and the ballots shall be denominated
as " assessment ballots."
Ord. No. 2002- 4, Added, 02/ 12/ 02)
Section 1. 10.030 Time for Conducting a Mailed Ballot Election or an Assessment
Ballot Proceeding
Any election or assessment ballot proceeding authorized pursuant to this chapter to
be conducted by mailed ballot may be conducted on any date determined by the City Council
except on an " established election date" under the Elections Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 4, Added, 02/ 12/ 02)
Section 1. 10. 040 Procedures for Conducting Mailed Ballot Elections or
Proceedings
Any election or proceeding authorized to be conducted by mailed ballot pursuant to
this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions for mailed ballot elections
1. 10 ( i) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
set forth in the California Elections Code, commencing with Section 4100, as such provisions
may hereafter be amended.
Ord. No. 2002- 4, Added, 02/ 12/ 02)
Section 1. 10. 050 Enabling Authority
This chapter has been enacted pursuant to the authority granted under Section 4000
c)( 9) of the California Elections Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 4, Added, 02/ 12/ 02)
1. 10 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 12
Enforcement Procedures
Sections:
1. 12.010 Alternative Code Enforcement Procedure
1. 12.020 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Notice to Appear in Court
1. 12.030 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Written Promise to Appear
1. 12.040 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Fixing and Giving of Bail
1. 12.050 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Violation of Promise to Appear
1. 12.060 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Issuance of Arrest Warrant
1. 12.070 Enforcement authority
Section 1. 12. 010 Alternative Code Enforcement Procedure
Whenever any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, a written " code violation warning" may be issued by
the official charged with enforcement of the provision violated. The code violation warning shall
state the nature of the violation, a reference to the code section violated, and the time within
which the violation must be corrected. The use of this remedy by the City shall not bar the use of
any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this code.
Prior Code 1- 10. 1; Ord. No. 82- 19, Amended 4/ 12/ 82; Ord. No. 84- 10, Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
Section 1. 12.020 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Notice to Appear in Court
A. If any person is arrested for a violation of any one or more of the provisions of
this code or any other ordinance of the City, and such person is not immediately taken before a
magistrate, as is more fully set forth in the Penal Code of the state, the arresting officer shall
prepare, in duplicate, a written notice to appear in court, containing the name and address of such
person, the offense charged and the time and place where and when such person shall appear
in court.
B. The time specified in the notice to appear must be at least ten days after such
arrest.
C. The place specified in the notice to appear shall be:
1. Before a judge of a justice court or a municipal court judge within the
county, if the offense charged is alleged to have been committed therein, and who has jurisdiction
of the offense and who is nearest and most accessible with reference to the place where the
arrest is made.
2. Upon demand of the person arrested, before a municipal court judge in
the city, if such offense is alleged to have been committed within the city, or before a judge in
the judicial district in which the offense is alleged to have been committed.
3. Before an officer authorized to receive a deposit of bail.
Prior Code 1- 11; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 1. 12. 030 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Written Promise to Appear
A. The arresting officer shall deliver one copy of the notice to appear, given
pursuant to Section 1. 12. 020, to the arrested person and the arrested person, in order to
secure release, shall give his written promise so to appear in court by signing the duplicate
1. 12 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
notice which shall be retained by the officer. Thereupon, the arresting officer shall forthwith
release the person arrested from custody.
B. No warrant shall issue on such charge for the arrest of a person who has given
such written promise to appear in court, unless and until he has violated such promise or has
failed to deposit bail, to appear for arraignment, trial or judgment or to comply with the terms
and provisions of the judgment, as required by law.
Prior Code 1- 12; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 4/ 63)
Section 1. 12.040 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Fixing and Giving of Bail
A. The arresting officer shall, as soon as practicable, file the duplicate notice given
pursuant to Section 1. 12. 020 with the magistrate specified therein. Thereupon, the magistrate
shall fix the amount of bail which in his judgment, in accordance with the provisions of Section
1275 of the Penal Code of the state, will be reasonable and sufficient for the appearance of the
defendant, and shall endorse upon the notice a statement signed by him in the form set forth in
Section 815a of the Penal Code of the state. The defendant may, prior to the date upon which
he promised to appear in court, deposit with the magistrate the amount of bail thus set.
Thereafter, at the time when the case is called for arraignment before the magistrate, if the
defendant does not appear, either in person or by counsel, the magistrate may declare the bail
forfeited, and may in his discretion order that no further proceedings be had in such case.
B. Upon the making of such order that no further proceedings be had, all sums
deposited as bail shall forthwith be paid into the City treasury.
Prior Code 1- 13; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 4/ 63)
Section 1. 12.050 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Violation of Promise to Appear
Any person willfully violating his written promise to appear in court given pursuant to
Section 1. 12. 030 is guilty of a violation of this code regardless of the disposition of the charge
upon which he was originally arrested.
Prior Code 1- 14; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 4/ 63)
Section 1. 12. 060 Citation in Lieu of Arrest - Issuance of Arrest Warrant
Whenever any person signs a written promise to appear at the time and place specified
in accordance with Section 1. 12. 030 and has not posted bail as provided in Section 1. 12. 040,
the magistrate shall issue and have delivered for execution a warrant for his arrest, either within
20 days after his failure to appear as promised or, if such person promises to appear before an
officer authorized to accept bail other than a magistrate and fails to do so on or before the date
on which he promised to appear, then within 20 days after the delivery of such written promise
to appear by the officer to a magistrate having jurisdiction over the offense.
Prior Code 1- 15; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 4/ 63)
Section 1. 12. 070 Enforcement authority
A. The City Manager and any public officer or employee of the City designated by
the City Manager as having the duty to enforce City codes and ordinances, or specific
provisions thereof, are public officers designated as and given the powers of arresting officers
pursuant to the provisions of California Penal Code Section 836. 5, including the power to issue
citations, for enforcement of any provision of this Code, the Development Code, any other
1. 12 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
code adopted by the City Council by reference or otherwise, or an uncodified ordinance, the
violation of which is declared to be an offense punishable by criminal penalty.
B. The provisions of this section, and the designation of public officers made
pursuant hereto, shall be additional to any other designation made by any other provision of this
Code or pursuant to state or federal law.
Ord. No. 2014- 5, Amended to add 2/ 25/ 14)
1. 12 ( 3) Vista 3/ 28/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 13
Administrative Citations
Sections:
1. 13.010 Title and Purpose
1. 13.020 Definitions
1. 13.030 Use of Administrative Citations - Separate Violations
1. 13.040 Contents of Administrative Citation
1. 13.050 Service of Administrative Citation
1. 13.060 Amount of Fine
1. 13.070 Payment of the Administrative Citation Fine
1. 13.080 Request for Initial Administrative Review
1. 13.090 Request for Administrative Hearing
1. 13. 100 Advance Deposit Hardship Waiver
1. 13. 110 Hearing Procedures
1. 13. 120 Hearing Officer' s Decision
1. 13. 130 Court Review Procedures
1. 13. 140 Penalties Assessed
1. 13.150 Allocation of Administrative Penalties
1. 13.153 Lien and Assessment Procedures
1. 13.155 Alternative Collection Process
1. 13.157 Interest; Satisfaction of Lien
1. 13. 160 Civil or Criminal Actions not Affected
Section 1. 13. 010 Title and Purpose
A. This chapter shall be cited as the Administrative Citation Ordinance.
B. The City Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of
enforcement of violations of this code, including property- related nuisance violations subject to
Section 8. 36. 040. B. 15.
C. The large majority of violations eligible for citation under this chapter are
property- related nuisances subject to Section 8. 36. 040. B. 15.
D. The City incurs substantial costs in investigating, identifying, addressing,
responding to, and correcting property- related nuisances.
E. The imposition of the fines and penalties set forth in this chapter will defray part,
but not all, of the expense of abatement incurred by the City.
F. The procedures established in this chapter shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or
any other legal remedy established by law which may be pursued to address a violation of the
code.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01; Ord. No. 2009- 14, Amended 6/ 9/ 09)
Section 1. 13.020 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
City" shall mean the City of Vista.
Code" shall mean the Vista Municipal Code or the Vista Development Code, or any
law, rule, regulation or code which is adopted by reference.
Code Compliance Officer" shall mean the person designated by the City Manager to
administer the program established by this chapter.
1. 13 ( 1) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Enforcement Officer" shall mean any person authorized by the City Manager to
enforce a violation of this code.
Hearing Officer" shall mean any person appointed by the City Manager to preside
over the administrative hearings provided for in Section 1. 13. 110 of this code.
Lien" shall mean a lien or assessment imposed for the purpose of recovering
abatement costs, including fines, associated with real property cited under this chapter for a
violation constituting a property- related nuisance. Liens are collected at the same time and in
the same manner as property or municipal taxes.
Person" or " Party" shall mean any natural person, firm, association, business, trust,
organization, corporation, partnership, company, or any other entity which is recognized by laws
as the subject of rights or duties.
Penalty" shall include " civil penalty" and shall mean the amount assessed, as a form
of nuisance abatement costs or fines, for a violation of this code or a permit condition.
Permit Condition" shall mean any condition imposed by the City of Vista or any of its
constituent bodies or employees in connection with any entitlement, permit, license, or
environmental review document issued or approved under the code, federal law, state law, or
any regulations promulgated there under.
Respondent" shall mean any person or entity who is the registered owner, property
owner, legal owner, driver, operator, tenant, lessee, or is otherwise liable for penalties in
accordance with the applicable section of this code, and who contests or disputes liability for
civil penalties.
Responsible Party" shall mean the person or party who is in immediate control of the
premises or the property owner or both where the violation is located.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01; Ord. No. 2009- 14, Amended 6/ 9/ 09)
Section 1. 13.030 Use of Administrative Citations - Separate Violations
A. A person violating any provision of this code, a permit condition, or maintaining a
nuisance as provided in Section 8. 36.040. B. 15 may be issued an administrative citation. The
citation shall constitute a fine or cost for purposes of nuisance abatement which shall be
payable directly to the City.
B. A separate violation occurs and a separate penalty may be assessed through a
newly issued citation on each day that a person or party continues to violate any provision of
the code or any permit condition. Contesting, disputing, or appealing an administrative citation
does not protect a responsible party against further citations for the same violation or
compliance with all provisions of the code and all permit conditions.
C. Civil penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be due 30
days from the date of the citation and will be collected in accordance with the procedures
specified in this chapter.
D. Before a responsible party is cited for violating a building, plumbing, electrical, or
other structural or zoning provision of the code or for violating a permit condition, the
responsible party shall first receive a notice of violation or warning which provided the
responsible party a reasonable period of time in which to correct or otherwise remedy the
violation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an administrative citation may be issued without a
prior notice or with a reduced period for correcting a violation if the violation creates an
immediate danger to health or safety. Further, no period for corrections shall be required by
this code in any circumstance where a waiting period is unnecessary under Section 53069. 4 of
the Government Code.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01; Ord. No. 2009- 14, Amended 6/ 9/ 09)
1. 13 (2) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 1. 13. 040 Contents of Administrative Citation
The administrative citation shall include all of the following:
A. The date of the violation.
B. The address or a definite description of the location where the violation
occurred.
C. Identification of code sections and permit condition which have been violated.
D. A description of the fine payment process, including a description of the time
within which and the place to which the fine shall be paid.
E. An order prohibiting the continuation or repeated occurrence of the violation
described in the administrative citation.
F. A description of the administrative citation review process, including the time
within which the administrative citation may be contested and the place from which a request
for hearing form to contest the administrative citation may be obtained.
G. The name and signature of the citing enforcement officer.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 050 Service of Administrative Citation
Service of an administrative citation may be accomplished as follows:
A. Personal Service. The enforcement officer may obtain the signature of the
responsible party to establish personal service of the citation. If the responsible party
refuses or otherwise fails to sign the administrative citation, the lack of signature in no way
affects the validity of the citation or the subsequent proceedings.
B. Service by Mail. The enforcement officer may mail the administrative citation
along with a declaration of service signed under penalty of perjury to the responsible party
by certified mail, postage prepaid with a requested return receipt. Simultaneously, a copy of
the administrative citation and declaration of service shall be sent by first class mail,
postage prepaid. If the administrative citation sent by certified mail is returned unsigned,
then service shall be deemed effective pursuant to first class mail, provided the citation sent
by first class mail is not returned. The failure of any responsible party to receive a properly
addressed administrative citation shall not affect the validity of the notice. Service of the
administrative citation in the manner described above shall be effective on the date of
mailing.
C. Posting of Property. The enforcement officer may post the administrative
citation by affixing it to a surface in a conspicuous place on the property. Conspicuous
posting of the citation is not required when personal service is accomplished or when
conspicuous posting poses a danger. Failure of a posted notice to remain in place after
posting shall in no way affect the validity of the citation or the subsequent proceedings.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 060 Amount of Fine
The amounts of the fines for violations are as follows:
A. A fine not exceeding $ 125 for the initial violation of each code section or
permit condition violated.
B. A fine not exceeding $ 250 for a second violation of the same code section or
permit condition within a one year period.
C. A fine not exceeding $ 500 for a third additional violation of the same code
section or permit condition within a one year period.
1. 13 (3) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
D. A fine not exceeding $ 1, 000 for each additional violation of the same code
section or permit condition within a one year period.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01; Ord. No. 2015- 13, Amended 8/ 11/ 15)
Section 1. 13. 070 Payment of the Administrative Citation Fine
A. The fine shall be paid to the City within 30 calendar days from the date the
administrative citation is served unless the responsible party files a request for an initial
administrative review. In such cases, the fine shall be due and payable to the City by the
date specified in the reviewing officer' s notice of decision.
B. Any administrative citation paid pursuant to Subsection A, shall be refunded in
accordance with Section 1. 13. 120( C) if it is determined, after a hearing pursuant to this
chapter, that the person charged in the administrative citation was not responsible for the
violation or that there was no violation of a code section or permit condition as charged in
the administrative citation.
C. Payment of a penalty shall not excuse or discharge any continuation or
repeated occurrence of the code violation or permit condition that is the subject to the
administrative citation.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 080 Request for Initial Administrative Review
A. Any person receiving an administrative citation may obtain an initial
administrative review by filing a written request within 30 calendar days from the date the
administrative citation is served. The request may be delivered in person or by first class
mail, postage prepaid. If the request is delivered by mail, it shall be deemed received as of
the date of the posting. The request may be delivered in person or by first class mail,
postage prepaid. The request shall be filed with the Code Compliance Division of the City
Manager's Office. The person requesting the administrative review shall set forth, with
particularity, the reasons he or she believes a violation did not occur or that the person cited
is not the responsible party along with a copy of the citation. Failure to timely file a written
request for an initial administrative review shall constitute a bar to any further administrative
review rights.
B. Code Compliance Officer shall forward all requests for an initial administrative
review to the Administrative Review Officer, as designated by the City Manager
Administrative Review Officer"). The Administrative Review Officer shall review the
request and all relevant information and provide the requestor with written notification that:
1. The administrative citation is vacated because there is insufficient
evidence to support the conclusion that a provision of the code or permit condition was
violated or that the person issued the administrative citation was the responsible party;
or
2. The administrative citation will not be vacated because there is
sufficient evidence to conclude that a provision of the code or a permit condition was
violated and that the person issued the administrative citation was the responsible party.
C. The Administrative Review Officer shall mail by first class mail, postage
prepaid a copy of the notice of decision to the party requesting the initial administrative
review at the address included in the request along with, if applicable, notice establishing
the date the civil penalty is due and the procedures for requesting an administrative hearing.
The notice of the decision shall also include a description of the administrative hearing
process, including the time within which to file a request for an administrative hearing and
the place from which a request for an administrative hearing form may be obtained.
1. 13 (4) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Initial administrative reviews should be completed within ten business days
from the date of the receipt of the written request for administrative review. The failure of
the Administrative Review Officer to complete a review within ten business days shall not
affect the validity of his decision.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 090 Request for Administrative Hearing
A. Any person receiving an administrative citation who is dissatisfied with the
conclusion of an initial administrative review by the Administrative Review Officer may file a
request for an administrative hearing with the Code Compliance Officer within 30 calendar days
from date of the notice of the decision of the initial administrative review. The request may be
delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. If the request is delivered by mail, it
shall be deemed received as of the date of the posting. The request for hearing must be
accompanied by the penalty amount along with an administrative fee as established by
resolution by the City Council. If the deadline falls on a day that City Hall is closed, then the
deadline shall be extended until the next regular business day.
B. A form for requesting a hearing may be obtained from the Code Compliance
Officer of the City.
C. As soon as practicable after receiving the request for hearing, the Code
Compliance Officer shall fix a date, time and place for hearing before a hearing officer. The
hearing shall be conducted not less than 15 calendar days and not more than 60 calendar days
from the date the request for hearing is filed with the City. Written notice of the time and place
of the hearing may be served by first class mail, postage prepaid, at the return address
indicated on the request for hearing. Service of the notice of hearing must be made at least ten
calendar days prior to the date of the hearing to the party requesting the hearing.
D. The failure to hold a hearing within the period specified in this section or the
failure of any person with an interest in the property, or other responsible party, to receive such
properly addressed notice of the hearing shall not affect the validity of any proceedings under
this chapter. Service by first class mail, postage prepaid shall be effective on the date of the
mailing.
E. Failure of any person to file a timely and complete application for administrative
hearing in accordance with the provision of this section shall constitute a waiver of that person' s
rights to administrative determination of the merits of the citation. The resulting citation shall be
deemed a final administrative order.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 100 Advance Deposit Hardship Waiver
A. Any person who intends to request a hearing to contest that there was a violation
of the code or a permit condition or that he or she is the responsible party and who is financially
unable to make the advance deposit of the penalty as required by Section 1. 13. 090(A) may file
a request for an advance deposit hardship waiver.
B. The request shall be filed with the Code Compliance Officer on an advanced
hardship waiver application form, available from the Code Compliance Officer, within 15
calendar days of the date of the administrative citation.
C. The requirement of depositing the full amount of the penalty as described in
Section 1. 13. 090(A) shall be stayed unless or until the Administrative Review Officer makes a
determination not to issue the advance deposit hardship waiver.
D. The Administrative Review Officer may waive the requirement of an advance
deposit set forth in Section 1. 13.090(A) and issue the advance deposit hardship waiver only if
1. 13 (5) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
the party submits to the Assistant to the City Manager a sworn affidavit, together with any
supporting documents or materials, demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Assistant to the City
Manager the person' s actual financial inability to deposit with the City the full amount of the
penalty in advance of the hearing.
E. If the Administrative Review Officer determines not to issue an advance deposit
hardship waiver, the person shall remit the deposit to the City within ten calendar days of the
date of that decision or 30 calendar days from the date of the administrative citation, whichever
is later.
F. The Administrative Review Officer shall issue a written determination listing the
reasons for his or her determination to issue or not issue the advance deposit hardship waiver.
The written determination of the Assistant to the City Manager shall be final.
G. The written determination of the Administrative Review Officer shall be served,
by first class mail, upon the person who applied for the advance deposit hardship waiver.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13.110 Hearing Procedures
A. Hearing Officer or Hearing Officers shall be designated by the City Manager for
all administrative hearings under this chapter. The employment, performance evaluation,
compensation, and benefits of the Hearing Officer, if any, shall not be directly or indirectly
conditioned upon the amount of administration citations penalties upheld by the Hearing Officer.
The Hearing Officer shall conduct an orderly fair hearing and accept all relevant evidence on
whether the violation( s) occurred and whether the responsible party has caused or maintained
the violation( s) on the date specified in the administrative citation. The formal rules of evidence
shall not apply.
B. The responsible party and/or the responsible party' s designee shall be entitled to
an opportunity to testify and present evidence concerning the violation(s) alleged in the
administrative citation.
C. The failure of a responsible party and/ or the responsible party's designee to
appear at the hearing shall constitute a forfeiture of the fine and a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies.
D. The administrative citation and any additional documents submitted by the
Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the respective facts contained in
those documents.
E. If the Enforcement Officer submits additional written documents concerning the
administrative citation to the Hearing Officer for consideration at the hearing, then a copy of
these documents shall also be served by mail on the person requesting the hearing at least five
calendar days prior to the date of the hearing. Upon request, the responsible party shall receive
an extension of the hearing date if the additional documents are not provided as required by this
subsection and the Hearing Officer determines that the failure to comply with the provisions of
this subsection was prejudicial.
F. At least ten calendar days prior to the hearing, the responsible party shall be
provided with copies of the administrative citation( s), reports and other documents submitted or
relied upon by the Enforcement Officer. No other discovery is permitted.
G. The City Manager shall establish all appropriate administrative regulations for
implementing this ordinance, conducting hearings and rendering decisions pursuant to this
section.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
1. 13 (6) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 1. 13. 120 Hearing Officer's Decision
A. Except as provided in Subsection D, the Hearing Officer, after considering all of
the testimony and evidence submitted at the hearing, shall issue a written decision within ten
calendar days of the hearing to uphold or deny the administrative citation and shall state the
reasons for that decision. The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final.
B. If the Hearing Officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the
alleged violation( s) existed on the date stated in the administrative citation and the recipient of
the administrative citation was the responsible party then the fine amount on deposit with the
City shall be retained by the City.
C. If the Hearing Officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence submitted
at the hearing that the alleged violation( s) did not exist or that the recipient of the administrative
citation was not the responsible party and the administrative penalty was deposited with the
City, then the City shall promptly refund the amount of the deposited penalty and administrative
fees.
D. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation exists as provided in Subsection
B, the Hearing Officer may use this alternative procedure if the Hearing Officer determines that
the procedure will serve the public health, safety or welfare. The alternative procedure is
intended to create an incentive for the responsible party to fully correct the violations within a
corrections period, which shall be set by the Hearing Officer and which shall not exceed 45 days
Corrections Period"). During the corrections period, the responsible party shall be given a final
chance to fully correct all conclusions of the corrections period, the Enforcement Officer shall
advise the Hearing Officer whether the cited violations have been fully corrected. If the Hearing
Officer is advised in writing that the violations have been fully corrected, the Hearing Officer
shall issue a written decision that: ( 1) the alleged violation( s) existed on the date stated in the
administrative citation; ( 2) the recipient of the administrative citation was the Responsible Party;
3) the Hearing Officer has received written notice from the Enforcement Officer that the cited
violations have been fully corrected to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer; and ( 4) 50%
of the collected fines shall be returned to the responsible party. If the Hearing Officer is advised
in writing that violations have not been fully corrected to the satisfaction of the Enforcement
Officer, the Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision that: ( 1) the alleged violation( s) existed
on the date stated in the administrative citation; ( 2) the recipient of the administrative citation
was the responsible party; ( 3) the Hearing Officer has received written notice from the
Enforcement Officer that the cited violations have not been fully corrected to the satisfaction of
the Enforcement Officer; and ( 4) the fine amount on deposit with the City shall be retained by
the City. The written decision under this alternative procedure shall be issued within ten
calendar days after the end of the corrections period.
E. The recipient of the administrative citation shall be served with a copy of
the Hearing Officer' s written decision by first class mail, postage prepaid. The service
shall be deemed effective on the date the decision is deposited in the mail, provided the
decision is not returned.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 130 Court Review Procedures
A. After receipt of the Hearing Officer's decision, the Responsible Party may file an
appeal with the Superior Court of the North County Judicial District for de novo review. The
request for review shall be submitted within 20 calendar days of the date of mailing of the
Hearing Officer's decision. The request for review shall be submitted in a format or on a form
acceptable to or provided by the Court. The request for Court review shall state the reason( s)
the party objects to the Hearing Officer's findings or decision. The request for review, the notice
1. 13 (7) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
of appeal and other documents filed with Court shall be served on the City as required by law,
including as required by Government Code Section 53069.4.
B. A final administrative order may be appealed to the court as provided in Section
1. 13. 120(A) within 20 calendar days of the date that the citation is deemed a final administrative
order.
C. The Court shall conduct a de novo hearing, except that the contents of
processing agency's file shall be received into evidence.
D. A copy of the administrative citation and imposition of penalty shall be entered as
prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
E. The Court filing fee shall be $ 25, or such other amount as the Legislature may
determine in future by statutory amendment or the City Council may determine in the future by
resolution, in accordance with Section 53069.4 of the Government Code. If the Court finds in
favor of the responsible party, the amount of the fee shall be reimbursed to the respondent by
the City. Any deposit of penalty shall be refunded by the City in accordance with the judgment
of the Court.
F. If the penalty has not been deposited, and the decision of the court is against the
responsible party, the City may proceed to collect the civil penalty in the manner provided by
law.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13.140 Penalties Assessed
A. If the responsible party or property owner fails to correct the violation,
subsequent administrative citations may be issued for the same violation( s).
B. Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violation nor
shall it bar further enforcement action by the City.
C. All penalties assessed shall be payable to the City.
D. The failure of any person to pay a penalty assessed by administrative citation
within the time specified on the citation pursuant to Section 1. 13. 070(A) or in compliance with a
notice of decision after initial, administrative or court review shall result in an assessment of an
additional late fee. A late penalty of ten percent shall be added to any delinquent fines on the
last day of each month after the due date. The penalty shall not exceed 50% of the
administrative citation penalty.
E. The failure of any person to pay a penalty assessed by administrative citation
within the time specified on the citation constitutes a debt to the City. To enforce that debt, the
City may file a civil action or pursue any other legal remedy to collect such money.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 150 Allocation of Administrative Penalties
Penalties collected in the manner described in this section shall be deposited in the
general fund of the City.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 1. 13. 153 Lien and Assessment Procedures
The City Council may cause any unpaid penalties ( including late fees and interest) to
become a lien or assessment against a property in accordance with the procedures and
requirements set forth in this section and any applicable provision of state law. This section
only applies to properties on which a nuisance was maintained as identified in Section
8. 36. 040. B. 15 and for which a citation was issued pursuant to this Chapter 1. 13. Prior to
1. 13 (8) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
imposing a lien or assessment against the property, the following procedures shall be followed:
A. A period of at least 45 days must pass during which the citation amount remains
unpaid, in whole or part, measured from the date on which the property owner is notified in
writing that the fine has become final.
B. A hearing before the City Council shall be scheduled to determine whether the
unpaid penalty shall be made a lien on the real property on which the violation occurred.
C. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be provided to the property
owner by certified mail. The notice shall also provide, in plain language, a description of the
basis for the amounts comprising the lien.
D. The notice shall advise the owner that the owner may, at the hearing, present
evidence or make arguments disputing the amount of the proposed lien and whether the
property should be subject to the lien. Failure to make an objection or to raise an issue at the
proceeding constitutes a waiver.
E. The hearing shall not be an opportunity to present evidence on the question of
whether a violation existed on the property pursuant to Section 8. 36. 040. B. 15 because that
opportunity is provided at an earlier time through an independent process contained in Sections
1. 13. 080 through 1. 13. 130.
F. The hearing shall be conducted at the time and place identified in the notice. At
the hearing, the City Council will consider all objections raised by the property owner regarding
the amount of the proposed lien and whether it should be imposed against the property. Upon
closure of the hearing, the City Council may approve or modify the amount of the proposed lien
or determine not to lien the property at all.
G. Upon approval of the amount of the proposed lien, the lien shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as property taxes are collected. However, the lien shall
not attach to any real property where, prior to the date on which the first installment of taxes
would become delinquent, either: ( 1) the underlying property has been transferred to a bona fide
purchaser for value; or ( 2) a lien has been recorded against the underlying property by a bona
fide encumbrancer for value.
H. Notice of the lien shall be provided to the owner by certified mail containing such
information as is needed to satisfy the Government Code.
I. Notice shall also be provided to the County.
Ord. No. 2009- 14, Added 6/ 9/ 09)
Section 1. 13. 155 Alternative Collection Process
As an alternative to the collection process authorized pursuant to Section 1. 13. 153, the
City Council may take any action to impose a lien or assessment against property authorized by
either Government Code Section 38773. 1 or Subsection (c) of Government Code Section
54988, using the procedures set forth therein.
Ord. No. 2009- 14, Added 6/ 9/ 09)
Section 1. 13. 157 Interest; Satisfaction of Lien
A. Interest shall accrue on the principal amount of the lien imposed under this
chapter, including a lien imposed under Section 1. 13. 153, until satisfied pursuant to law.
B. For any lien imposed under this chapter, once payment in full has been received
by the City, the City Clerk shall either record a notice of satisfaction or provide the property
owner or applicable financial institution with a notice of satisfaction so they may record such
notice with the San Diego County Assessor- Recorder. The notice of satisfaction shall cancel
the City' s lien.
Ord. No. 2009- 14, Added 6/ 9/ 09)
1. 13 (9) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 1. 13. 160 Civil or Criminal Actions Not Affected
Any administrative citation pursuant to this section shall not prejudice or adversely affect
any other action, civil or criminal, that may be brought to abate the public nuisance or violation
or which seeks compensation for damages suffered. A civil or criminal action may be brought
concurrently with any other process regarding the same public nuisance or violation.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
1. 13 ( 10) Vista 9/ 11/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 16
General Penalty
Sections:
1. 16.010 Violation - Penalty
1. 16.020 Prohibited Conditions Deemed Public Nuisance
Section 1. 16. 010 Violation - Penalty
A. Violations. No person, firm, company, corporation, or other responsible entity
shall violate any provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein, any ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto,
or any condition of any license, permit or other entitlement issued pursuant to this code.
B. Any person, firm, corporation, or other responsible entity who violates any
provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by reference herein, any
ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, or any condition of
any license, permit or other entitlement issued pursuant to this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, unless:
1. Such requirement is classified as an infraction by the California Vehicle
Code, this Code, or any ordinance of the City.
2. The City Attorney or City Prosecutor authorizes the issuance of a citation
charging an offense as an infraction.
3. The City Attorney or City Prosecutor files a complaint charging the
offense as an infraction.
4. After the filing of a misdemeanor complaint, the court, upon motion of the
people, reduces the charge to an infraction, and the defendant does not object to having the
case proceed as an infraction.
C. Aiding and Abetting. Whenever any act or omission is prohibited by any
provision of this code, any ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated by the City
pursuant thereto or any condition of any license, permit or other entitlement issued by the City
pursuant thereto, such prohibition shall be deemed to prohibit the causing, permitting, aiding,
abetting, suffering, maintaining, or concealing of such act or omission, and any person who shall
cause, permit, aid, abet, suffer, maintain, or conceal such act or omission shall be guilty of a
violation of this code and shall be punishable in accordance with the punishment prescribed for
such act or omission.
D. Penalties.
1. Misdemeanor. Any person, firm, company, corporation, or other
responsible entity convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this code by a court of
competent jurisdiction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $ 1, 000, by imprisonment in
the City or County Jail for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
2. Infraction. Any person, firm, company, corporation, or other responsible
entity convicted of an infraction under the provisions of this code by a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be punishable by ( 1) a fine not exceeding $ 100 for a first violation, ( 2) a fine not
exceeding $ 200 for a second violation of the same ordinance within any consecutive 12 month
period; or ( 3) a fine not exceeding $ 500 for each additional violation of the same ordinance
within any consecutive 12 month period.
3. Administrative Citation. Any person, firm, company, corporation, or other
responsible entity who violates any provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any
1. 16 ( l) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
code adopted by reference herein, any ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto, or any condition of any permit issued pursuant to this code, is also subject to
Chapter 1. 13 ( Administrative Citations) of this code.
E. Continuing Violations. It shall constitute a new and separate offense for each
and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this code or any code
adopted by reference herein, any ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto, or any condition of any license, permit or other entitlement issued pursuant to
this code is committed, continued, maintained, or permitted by such person, and shall be
punishable accordingly.
F. Effect of Conviction Upon Liability. The conviction and punishment of any
person, firm, company, or corporation for any violation of this code does not excuse or exempt
such person, firm, company, or corporation from complying with the specific code section
violated or from the payment of any applicable tax, license fee, permit fee, or other charge, cost,
fee, or other debt required by any provision of the City Code.
G. Conflict with Other Penalty Provisions. Wherever there is a conflict between the
provisions of this chapter and the penalty provision of any other chapter of the code, this
chapter shall supersede the conflicting provision.
Prior Code 1- 10; Ord. No. 84- 10, Amended 2/ 27/ 84; Ord. No. 86- 57, Amended 11/ 25/ 86; Ord. No. 89- 51,
Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 2009- 23, Amended, 12/ 1/ 09)
Section 1. 16. 020 Prohibited Conditions Deemed Public Nuisance
In addition to the penalties provided by this chapter, any condition caused or permitted to
exist in violation of any provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein, any ordinance of the City, any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto,
or any condition of any permit issued pursuant to this code shall be deemed a public nuisance
and may be summarily abated by the City by any and all means ( civil, administrative, and/ or
equitable) as provided by law or in equity. All remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and
not exclusive.
Prior Code 1- 16; Ord. No. 2009- 23, Amended, 12/ 1/ 09)
1. 16 ( 2) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 20
City Seal and City Letterhead
Sections:
1. 20.010 City Seal Description
1. 20.020 City Seal Use
1. 20.030 City Letterhead Description
1. 20.040 City Letterhead Use
Section 1. 20.010 City Seal Description
The City Seal is circular, of a size appropriate for use on official City documents and has
in the center any design adopted by the City Council and the inscription " City of Vista"
surrounding the design.
Prior Code 2- 8. 1( a); Ord. No. 90- 39, Added, 10/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2013- 16, Amended 6/ 11/ 13 )
Section 1. 20.020 City Seal Use
The City Seal shall only be utilized by City officials for official business of the City. No
person shall use or allow to be used any reproduction or facsimile of the City Seal for any
commercial, personal, political, or non- City organizational purpose unless previously authorized
by the City Council.
Prior Code 2- 8. 1( b); Ord. No. 90- 39, Added, 10/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2013- 16, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 1. 20.010 City Letterhead Description
City Letterheads shall be of such styles and compositions as the City Manager may
determine from time to time. They may incorporate a City logo or the City Seal as appropriate to
their function.
Ord. No. 2013- 16, Added 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 1. 20.020 City Letterhead Use
A. Official City Letterheads, as designated by the City Manager, shall only be
utilized by City officials for official business of the City. No person shall use or allow to be used
any reproduction or facsimile of the City Letterhead for any commercial, personal, political, or
non- City organizational purpose unless previously authorized by the City Council.
B. Notwithstanding Subsection A above, letterhead approved by the City Manager
may be used by a member of the City Council, the City Manager, and the City Attorney as
individual, unofficial letterhead. Individual letterhead shall include only the name of the individual
authorized to use the letterhead.
1. Individual letterhead printed or provided by the City may be used for
unofficial communications and constituent newsletters, but it may not be used for political
purposes or solely personal purposes.
2. Facsimile individual letterhead may be produced by the individual for
political and personal purposes provided that: ( 1) no City resources are used in its preparation
and printing; ( 2) the City Seal does not appear on the letterhead; ( 3) no City address, telephone
number, or email address appear on the letterhead; and ( 4) the letterhead states that it was not
prepared or printed at public expense.
1. 20 ( l) Vista 7/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The City Manager is authorized but not required to issue policies and procedures
to implement the provisions of this Section.
Ord. No. 2013- 16, Added 6/ 11/ 13)
1. 20 ( 2) Vista 7/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 24
Election Requirement for Municipal Administration Facilities
Sections:
1. 24.010 Appropriation Limitation
1. 24.020 Application
1. 24.030 Severance
Section 1. 24.010 Appropriation Limitation
The City of Vista shall not approve, make an appropriation for, or in any way participate in
the construction of new municipal administrative facilities where such facilities have a contract
value in excess of $ 300,000, nor shall the City lease or rent such facilities at an annual cost in
excess of $50, 000 unless such new facilities, appropriation, lease or rental are first approved by
a majority of the registered voters voting at an election thereon.
Ord. No. Prop. T, Enacted 11/ 6/ 79; Ord. No. 2006- 15, Adopted 8/ 8/ 06; Prop. L, Passed by the
voters, 11/ 7/ 06, for 4/ 1/ 07 enactment, authorized City of Vista to appropriate funds for new
municipal facilities in excess of $300, 000.)
Section 1. 24.020 Application
This ordinance shall apply to any new municipal administrative facilities except those
upon which substantial good- faith construction has commenced prior to the effective date of this
ordinance.
Ord. No. Prop. T, Enacted 11/ 6/ 79; Ord. No. 2006- 15, Adopted 8/ 8/ 06; Prop. L, Passed 11/ 7/ 06,
for 4/ 1/ 07 enactment)
Section 1. 24.030 Severance
If any section, part, clause, or phase thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the remaining sections shall not be affected but will remain in full force and
effect.
Ord. No. Prop. T, Enacted 11/ 6/ 79; Ord. No. 2006- 15, Adopted 8/ 8/ 06; Prop. L, Passed 11/ 7/ 06,
for 4/ 1/ 07 enactment)
1. 24 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 1. 28
Claims
Sections:
1. 28.010 Authority
1. 28.020 Claims Required
1. 28.030 Form of Claim
1. 28.040 Claim Prerequisite to Suit
1. 28.050 Suit
1. 28.060 Settlement Authority
1. 28.070 Claims Controlled by State and Federal Law
Section 1. 28.010 Authority
The chapter is enacted pursuant to Section 935 of the California Government Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 1. 28.020 Claims Required
All claims against the City of Vista for money or damages not otherwise governed by the
Tort Claims Act California Government Code Sections 900 et seq., or another State law
hereinafter in this chapter, " claims") shall be presented within the time, and in the manner,
prescribed by Part 3 of Division 3. 6 of Title I of the California Government Code ( commencing
with Section 900) thereof for the claims to which that part applies by its own terms, as those
provisions now exist or shall hereafter be amended, and as further provided by this chapter.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 1. 28.030 Form of Claim
All claims shall be made in writing and verified by the claimant or by his or her guardian,
conservator, executor or administrator. No claim may be filed on behalf of a class of persons
unless verified by every member of that class as required by this section. In addition, all claims
shall contain the information required by California Government Code Section 910.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 1. 28.040 Claim Prerequisite to Suit
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 935( b) and 945.6, all claims
shall be presented as provided in this chapter and acted upon by the City Council or its
designee prior to the filing of any action on such claims and no such action may be maintained by
a person who has not complied with the requirements of Section 1. 28. 020.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 1. 28.050 Suit
Any action brought against the City of Vista upon any claim or demand shall conform to
the requirements of Sections 940 through 949 of the California Government Code. Any action
brought against any employee of the City of Vista shall conform with the requirements of
Section 950 through 951 of the California Government Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
1. 28 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 1. 28.060 Settlement Authority
The City Council, by resolution, may delegate to the City Manager and/ or Risk Manager
authority to settle claims filed or made pursuant to this chapter and monetary claims filed or
made pursuant to the California Tort Claims Act, ( California Government Code Section 900 et
seq.) or other state or federal legislation (" Additional Claims"). The amount of delegated
settlement authority shall not exceed the maximum amount specified in Section 935.4 of the
California Government Code or other controlling law.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 1. 28.070 Claims Controlled by State and Federal Law
Additional claims shall be presented and processed in accordance with the state or
federal procedures governing those additional claims rather than the procedures set forth in
Sections 1. 28.010 through 1. 28. 050 of this code.
Ord. No. 2002- 15, Added, 04/ 23/ 02)
1. 28 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.04
Administrative Provisions
Sections:
2. 04.010 City Office Hours
2. 04.020 Location of City Offices
2. 04.030 Authority of County Officers and Employees
2. 04.040 Contracts with County for Performance of Certain Functions
2. 04.050 Filing of Applications - Payment of Fees
2. 04.060 Payment of Fees Where No Fee Prescribed
2. 04.070 Filing of Documents by City Officials
2. 04.080 Recording of Real Property Documents - Fees
2. 04.090 Removal of Documents from City Hall
2. 04. 100 Notice
2. 04. 110 Execution of Documents
Section 2. 04.010 City Office Hours
The offices of the City shall be open for public business on Monday through Friday
during hours set by resolution of the City Council. The City offices shall not be open on
Saturday or Sunday or during any federal, state, or local holiday adopted by resolution of the
City Council, or as set forth in any memorandum of understanding or proclaimed by the Mayor.
Prior Code 2- 3; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 73- 20, Amended 4/ 9/ 73; Ord. No. 78- 49,
Amended 9/ 28/ 78)
Section 2. 04.020 Location of City Offices
The administrative offices of the City shall be located and maintained at 200 Civic Center
Drive, Vista, California. The Council Chambers for the City Council shall be located and
maintained as provided for in Section 2. 12. 030.
Prior Code 2- 4; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 73- 20, Amended 4/ 9/ 73; Ord. No. 79- 22,
Amended 6/ 5/ 79; Ord. No. 87- 8, Amended 4/ 13/ 87)
Section 2. 04.030 Authority of County Officers and Employees
A. Whenever in this code, or in any other ordinance of the City, the County Sheriff,
Health Officer, Director of Public Works, Livestock Inspector, Chief of the Building Inspection
Division of the Department of Public Works, County Surveyor, County Road Commissioner,
County Board of Health, or other county officer, deputy, or authorized representative is
authorized to perform any duty or exercise any power, such board of health, officer, deputy, or
authorized representative is authorized to perform such duties or exercise such powers within the
City as officers of the City unless this code expressly provides otherwise.
B. Wherever, pursuant to any provisions of the county code adopted by reference by
this code, fees are to be paid to a county officer or department, such fees shall continue to be
so collected and retained by such department, if in fact such county officer or department is
authorized to and actually does perform the services for which such fee is charged.
Prior Code 2- 7; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
2. 04 ( l) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 04.040 Contracts with County for Performance of Certain Functions
The City Council shall have the right to contract with the county, pursuant to the laws of
the state and the charter of the county, for the performance and execution by designated
county officials of the rights, powers and duties of officers, officials and employees of the City.
Whenever in this code, whether set forth in full or by adoption by reference, any power or
authority is granted to an officer, official or employee, the power or authority is conferred upon
the appropriate officer, official or employee of the City or the appropriate officer, official or
employee of the county with whom a contract has been entered into.
Prior Code 2- 7. 1; Ord. No. 81- 29, Amended 5/ 6/ 81)
Section 2. 04.050 Filing of Applications - Payment of Fees
Any applications required to be filed with the City or fees required to be paid to the City,
pursuant to the provisions of this code, shall be filed with or paid to the City Clerk, unless
otherwise provided by this code.
Prior Code 2- 8; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 2. 04.060 Payment of Fees Where No Fee Prescribed
Notwithstanding other provisions of this code, other ordinances of the City, or
resolutions, rules or regulations to the contrary, where no fee is prescribed for a service provided
to the public, the City Council may, by resolution, provide for such a fee pursuant to this section.
The City Council may prescribe such fee even though the enacting ordinance for such service
does not set forth the fee or the authorization to charge such a fee.
Prior Code 2- 1; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 2. 04.070 Filing of Documents by City Officials
The Mayor, the City Clerk, the City Attorney, and the Deputy Mayor are each appointed
the authorized agent of the City for the filing with such offices and officers of the state and of the
county of certified copies of ordinances and resolutions and such other documents as may be
required for the proper and efficient conduct of the City's business.
Prior Code 2- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2012- 14 Amended 12/ 11/ 12)
Section 2. 04.080 Recording of Real Property Documents - Fees
A. The City shall record with the County Recorder all documents relating to real
property in the city with respect to building, planning, zoning, and engineering matters, if it is
determined to be in the best interests of the City. The determination as to the necessity for
recordation shall be made by the City Council, City Manager, City Clerk, City Attorney, Director
of Community Development, Economic Development Manager, City Planner, City Engineer,
Building Official, or other employee designated by the City Manager, and such determination
shall be conclusive.
B. Any fees charged by the recorder for the recordation of the documents are to be
borne by the property owner or developer.
Prior Code 2- 8. 5; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
2. 04 ( 2) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 04.090 Removal of Documents from City Hall
No person, unless authorized by the City Clerk, Mayor, or City Attorney, shall remove
any papers or documents from City Hall.
Prior Code 2- 9; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 2. 04.100 Notice
A. Whenever written notice is appropriate to be given and state law does not
otherwise mandate a specific procedure for giving such notice which is applicable to charter
cities, notice shall be given as follows:
1. Notice shall be posted in three public places within the city. The time and
places for posting shall be established by administrative policy promulgated by the City
Manager as appropriate from time to time. Notices may be summary in form and refer to more
detailed or complete information maintained at another location within the city. The City Clerk or
the City Clerk' s deputy is authorized to prepare summaries of ordinances. Postings may be
made in printed form or in electronic form on an electronic display.
2. Notices may also be placed on the City website in a section provided for
public notices. Notices placed on the City website shall be unofficial and a matter of public
courtesy only, and shall not replace or supersede officially posted notices. No person shall
have any right of action against the City in the event a notice is not posted or is erroneously
posted on the City website.
3. The provisions of California Government Code Section 65093 shall be
applicable to all notices required to be given by the City under state law or pursuant to this code.
B. Whenever a personal notice is required to be given under this code, unless
different provisions are otherwise specifically made in this code, such notice may be given either
by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States mail
in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person to be notified, at that person' s
last known business or residence address as the same appears in the public records of the City
or other records pertaining to the matter to which such notice is directed. Service by mail shall
be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the post office.
C. Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any officer or
employee of the City, or by affidavit of any person over the age of 18 years, which shows
service in conformity with this code or other provisions of law applicable to the subject matter
concerned.
Prior Code 1- 18; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2009- 7, Amended, 3/ 24/ 09)
Section 2. 04.110 Execution of Documents
A. The City Manager and the City Attorney are authorized to execute agreements,
amendments, and supplemental agreements without further action by the City Council under the
following circumstances:
1. The City Manager may approve and execute, if approved by the City
Attorney, such documents as may be required to properly effectuate transactions, agreements,
applications, and other actions previously approved by the City Council by resolution or minute
order. Examples of such documents include, without limitation, quitclaim deeds, releases of
security interests, grant assurances, and minor non- monetary contract amendments, including
those required by lenders and title companies in order to effectuate real property transactions.
2. The City Manager may approve and execute, if approved by the City
Attorney, such documents as may be required to properly effectuate settlement agreements
where the basic terms and conditions were approved by the City Council in a closed session.
2. 04 ( 3) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The City Manager and the City Attorney may approve the execution of
documents as set forth above provided that they reasonably determine that the document is
necessary to properly effectuate City Council actions and that it is not necessary to obtain
further policy or legal guidance or approval from the City Council.
4. Nothing in this Section 2. 04. 110 shall be deemed to limit or enlarge
authority given to the City Manager or the City Attorney by any other provision of this code.
Ord. No. 2009- 15, Added, 6/ 23/ 09)
2. 04 ( 4) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.08
Officers and Employees
Sections:
2. 08.010 Compensation of City Employees
2. 08.020 Bond Required - City Clerk
2. 08.030 Bond Required - City Treasurer
2. 08.040 Authority of Officers - Delegation of Power
2. 08.050 Violation of Administration Provisions
Section 2. 08.010 Compensation of City Employees
The salaries and compensation of officers and employees of the City shall be as fixed
and determined by resolution of the City Council, except those fixed in this code.
Prior Code 23- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 2. 08.020 Bond Required - City Clerk
The City Clerk upon entry to the duties of office shall execute a bond to the City in
conformity with bonds of public officers, and in conformity with the provisions of the Government
Code of the state relating thereto, in the amount of$ 100, 000.
Prior Code 2- 5; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 29, Amended 8/ 27/ 63)
Section 2. 08.030 Bond Required - City Treasurer
The City Treasurer upon the entry of office shall execute a bond to the City in conformity
with bonds of public officers, and in conformity with the provisions of the Government Code of
the state relating thereto, in the amount of$ 100, 000.
Prior Code 2- 6; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 29, Amended 8/ 27/ 63)
Section 2. 08.040 Authority of Officers - Delegation of Power
Whenever a power is granted to or duty is imposed upon a public officer or employee,
the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy of such officer or
employee or by a person otherwise duly authorized, pursuant to law or ordinance.
Prior Code 1- 17; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 2. 08.050 Violation of Administration Provisions
The violation of any administrative provisions of this code by any officer or employee of
the City may be deemed a failure to perform the duties under, or observe the rules and
regulations of, the department, office or board within the meaning of the rules and regulations of
the City.
Prior Code 1- 17; Ord. No. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
2. 08 ( l) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2. 12
City Council
Sections:
2. 12.010 Salaries of the Mayor and Members of the City Council
2. 12.020 Reimbursement of Automobile Expenses
2. 12. 030 Meetings and Workshops -Time and Location
2. 12.040 Meetings - Order of Business; Scheduling Public Hearings
2. 12.050 Agenda-Contents and Preparation
2. 12.060 Presiding Officer - Powers and Duties
2. 12.070 Presiding Officer - Call to Order
2. 12.080 Entry of Roll Call in Minutes
2. 12.090 Quorum Required
2. 12. 100 Preparation of Minutes
2. 12. 110 Reading of Minutes and Ordinances
2. 12. 120 Rules of Debate
2. 12. 130 Addressing the City Council - Request to Speak
2. 12. 140 Addressing the City Council - Recognition and Time Limits
2. 12. 150 City Council Meetings - Order and Decorum
2. 12. 160 Persons Authorized to Approach Council Table
2. 12. 170 Entry of Protests in Minutes
2. 12. 180 Roll Call Votes
2. 12. 190 Relationship Between Council and City Manager
2. 12.200 Smoking Prohibited in Council Chambers
2. 12.210 Posting of " No Smoking" Area
2. 12.220 Failure to Post " No Smoking" Area
2. 12.230 Violation of Section 2. 12. 200 - Penalty
2. 12.240 Ordinances, Resolutions
2. 12.250 Robert' s Rules of Order
Section 2. 12. 010 Salaries of the Mayor and Members of the City Council
A. Each Member of the City Council and the Mayor shall receive a salary, which
may be adjusted from time to time by adoption of a resolution of the City Council, and shall
receive an across-the- board, annual adjustment to their respective monthly salaries in the same
amount and at the same time that Management Employees receive such an adjustment.
B. Salaries of the Members of the City Council and of the Mayor shall be paid at the
same time and in the same manner as salaries of other officers and employees of the City.
Salaries paid to the Members of the City Council and the Mayor shall be exclusive of, and in
addition to, any amounts paid by the City for retirement, health and welfare benefits, or social
security benefits, provided that all such benefits are made available and paid by the City for its
employees, and shall be exclusive of, and in addition to, any reimbursements paid to Members
of the City Council or to the Mayor for costs or expenses incurred in the conduct of official
duties.
Prior Code 2- 12; Ord. No. 65- 58, Amended 12/ 28/ 65; Ord. No. 74- 2, Amended 2/ 6/ 74; Ord. No. 84- 37,
Amended 8/ 28/ 84; Ord. No. 86- 56, Amended 11/ 12/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 10, Amended 3/ 28/ 88; Ord. No. 92- 9,
Amended, 06/ 09/ 92; Ord. No. 96- 18, Amended, 10/ 08/ 96; Ord. No. 2000- 1, Amended, 04/ 25/ 00; Ord. No.
2008- 1, Amended, 1/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2018- 16, Amended, 12/ 11/ 18)
2. 12 ( 1) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 12. 020 Reimbursement of Automobile Expenses
Prior Code 2- 12A; Ord. No. 87-43, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 2002- 13, Amended, 03/ 26/02; Ord. No.
2009- 8, Repealed, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 2. 12. 030 Meetings and Workshops -Time and Location
A. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first, second, and fourth
Tuesdays of each month except as otherwise provided below.
1. The City Council shall annually adopt one or more resolutions identifying
the dates on which regular meetings shall be held. Dates not identified by the City Council shall
not be regular meeting dates for any legal purpose.
2. Any scheduled regular meeting may be cancelled by the City Manager in
consultation with the Mayor.
3. Regular meeting dates established by the City Council shall also be
regular meeting dates for the Community Development Commission, the Buena Sanitation
District, and the Successor Agency.
4. If the City Council does not adopt a resolution establishing meeting dates
for a given month or calendar year, regular meetings shall be held on the first, second, and
fourth Tuesdays of the month.
B. All meetings of the City Council shall be held within the boundaries of the City of
Vista, except as otherwise permitted by law, and shall be convened in the City Council
Chambers located at 200 Civic Center Drive, Vista, California, unless a location other than the
City Council Chambers is identified in a published notice or posted agenda of any meeting.
C. The meetings scheduled for the second and fourth Tuesdays shall commence at
5: 30 p. m., except when a closed session is required. When a closed session is required, the
closed portion of the meeting shall commence prior to 5: 30 p. m., at the specific time selected by
the City Manager and posted on an agenda in conformance with Government Code Section
54950 et seq. In no event shall the public portion of the meeting commence prior to 5:30 p. m.
D. The meetings scheduled for the first Tuesdays shall commence at 2: 00 p. m.
except when a different specific time is selected by the City Manager and posted on an agenda
in conformance with Government Code Section 54950 et seq.
Prior Code 2- 10; Ord. No. 63- 1, Amended 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 7, Amended 4/ 3/ 63; Ord. No. 65- 55,
Amended 12/ 28/ 65; Ord. No. 68- 27, Amended 8/ 6/ 68; Ord. No. 69- 53, Amended 9/ 2/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 13,
Amended 7/ 6/ 71; Ord. 75- 35, Amended 8/ 25/ 75; Ord. No. 78- 13, Amended 3/ 13/ 78; Ord. No. 75- 35; Ord.
No. 78- 13, Amended 3/ 13/ 78; Ord. No. 87- 8, Amended 4/ 13/ 87; Ord. No. 88- 42, Amended 1/ 9/ 89; Ord.
No. 89- 32, Amended 8/ 28/ 89; Ord. No. 90- 36, Amended 8/ 17/ 90; Ord. No. 90-44, Amended, 12/ 17/ 90;
Ord. No. 91- 13, Amended, 5/ 28/ 91; Ord. No. 94-6, Amended, 3/ 08/94; Ord. No. 94- 22, Amended,
10/ 11/ 94; Ord. No. 95- 1, Amended, 1/ 10/ 95; Ord. No. 95-6, Amended, 6/ 13/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 11,
Amended, 7/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2003-27, Amended, 12/ 09/ 03; Ord. No. 2004- 10, Amended, 10/ 26/ 04; Ord.
No. 2005-23, Amended, 11/ 08/ 05; Ord. No. 2008- 12, Amended, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2018- 3, Amended
4/ 10/ 18)
Section 2. 12.040 Meetings - Order of Business; Scheduling Public Hearings
A. Workshop Meetings. The regular meeting of the City Council held on the first
Tuesday of each month shall be designated as a " workshop" meeting, and is intended to
provide an opportunity for the City Council to discuss and deliberate upon the issues presented
at greater length and in more depth than is otherwise permitted at full meetings. Subject to the
approval of the agenda by the City Council for each meeting, the order in which agenda matters
shall be presented to the City Council for any regular workshop meeting shall be as established
by City Council resolution.
2. 12 ( 2) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Full Meetings. The regular meetings of the City Council held on the second and
fourth Tuesdays of each month shall be designated as " full" meetings. Subject to the approval
of the agenda by the City Council for each meeting, the order in which agenda matters shall be
presented to the City Council for any regular full meeting shall be as established by City Council
resolution.
C. Setting Matters for Public Hearing Calendars. Any agenda matters requiring a
noticed public hearing shall ordinarily be noticed for a full meeting of the City Council at a date
and time certain determined by the City Manager. This section shall not be construed to
prevent the City Council from conducting a noticed public hearing at any regular workshop or
special meeting of the City Council.
D. From time to time as it finds convenient, the City Council may approve regular or
special procedures for the conduct of any City Council proceeding, not otherwise inconsistent
with the requirements of any law or ordinance, upon adoption of a resolution of the City Council.
E. All public testimony on public hearings shall be completed by 10: 00 p. m., subject
to extension by a majority vote of the City Council.
Prior Code 2- 14; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. 89- 46, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 89- 46,
Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 95- 1, Amended, 02/ 14/ 95; Ord. No. 95- 14, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99-
11, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. 2002- 9, Amended, 03/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2003- 27, Amended, 12/ 09/ 03; Ord.
No. 2004- 10, Amended, 10/ 26/ 04; Ord. No. 2005-23, Amended, 11/ 08/ 05; Ord. No. 2006- 5, Amended,
6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2008- 12, Amended, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2008- 33, Amended, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 2. 12. 050 Agenda - Contents and Preparation
A. All reports, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents and other matters to be
submitted to the City Council at their regular meetings shall be delivered to the City Manager or
City Clerk not later than 5: 00 p. m. on the Thursday eleven days prior to the meeting. The City
Manager or City Clerk shall prepare the agenda of all such matters according to the order of
business and deliver or mail to each Council Member and Department Head a complete copy of
such agenda as soon as possible, but in no event later than 5:00 p. m. on the Wednesday
preceding the Council meeting. The agenda shall be available to the public as soon as it has
been prepared, but in no event later than allowed pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act,
commencing with Section 54950 of the State Government Code.
B. No matters other than those on the agenda shall be finally acted upon by the City
Council except as pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act.
Prior Code 2- 13; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 87- 20, Amended 6/ 22/ 87)
Section 2. 12.060 Presiding Officer - Powers and Duties
A. The Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, shall be the
presiding officer and shall assume the duties as soon as election results are confirmed by
Council.
B. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum at all meetings of the Council, state
questions coming before the Council, announce decisions on all subjects and decide all
questions of order. The Mayor's decisions on matters of order are subject to appeal to the
Council as a whole. In the event of an appeal, a majority vote shall govern and conclusively
determine such question of order. The Mayor shall vote on all questions.
C. The Mayor shall sign all ordinances and resolutions adopted and contracts
approved by the Council at meetings at which the Mayor presides. In the absence of the Mayor,
the Deputy Mayor shall sign the documents that were adopted and approved by the Council. In
the absence of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor, the temporary Chairperson shall sign the
documents that were adopted and approved during the meeting at which the temporary
2. 12 ( 3) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chairperson presided.
Prior Code 2- 15; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2012-
14, Amended 12/ 11/ 12)
Section 2. 12.070 Presiding Officer - Call to Order
The Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, shall call the Council to
order. In the absence of the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor, the City Clerk or Deputy City Clerk
shall call the Council to order. A temporary Chairperson shall then be elected by the Council
Members present. Upon the arrival of the Mayor or the Deputy Mayor, the temporary
Chairperson shall relinquish the chair at the conclusion of the business then before the Council."
Prior Code 2- 16; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2012- 14,
Amended 12/ 11/ 12)
Section 2. 12. 080 Entry of Roll Call in Minutes
The names of all Council Members present shall be entered into the minutes of the
meeting.
Prior Code 2- 17; Ord. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 090 Quorum Required
A majority of the City Council then serving shall constitute a quorum for transaction of
business. When there is no quorum, the Mayor, Deputy Mayor or any Council Member shall
adjourn the meeting. If no Council Member is present, the City Clerk or Deputy City Clerk shall
adjourn the meeting. A meeting adjourned without a quorum may be adjourned sine die or to a
date certain.
Prior Code 2- 17. 1; Ord. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2008- 32,
Amended 12/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2012- 14 Amended 12/ 11/ 12)
Section 2. 12. 100 Preparation of Minutes
A. The minutes of the City Council shall be kept by the City Clerk in a book with a
record of each item of business transacted set off in paragraphs with proper titles. The City
Clerk shall be required to make a record only of the business that was actually passed upon by
a vote of the City Council and shall not be required to record any remarks of Council Members,
or of any other person except at the special request of a Council Member. A record shall be
made of the names and addresses of persons addressing the City Council, the title of the
subject matter to which their remarks related, and whether they spoke in support of or in
opposition to such matter.
B. The City Clerk shall forward a copy of the minutes of the meeting to each Council
Member prior to the next regular meeting.
Prior Code 2- 17. 2; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89-46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 110 Reading of Minutes and Ordinances
A. Unless the reading of the minutes of a City Council meeting is requested by a
Council Member, minutes may be approved without reading.
B. Unless the reading of an ordinance is requested by a Council Member,
ordinances may be approved without reading the text or the title.
Prior Code 2- 17. 3; Ord. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2008- 32,
Amended, 12/ 9/ 08)
2. 12 ( 4) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 12. 120 Rules of Debate
A. Presiding Officer May Debate and Vote. The presiding officer may move, second
and debate from the chair, subject only to limitations of debate which are imposed on all Council
Members. The presiding officer shall not be deprived of any of the rights and privileges of a
Council Member by reason of serving as the presiding officer.
B. Manner of Addressing Chairperson. Improper references are to be avoided.
Every Council Member desiring to speak shall address the chair and upon recognition by the
presiding officer, shall confine the remarks to the question under debate, avoiding all
personalities and indecorous language.
C. Interruptions. A Council Member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when
speaking, except to call the Council Member to order, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
If a Council Member is called to order while speaking, the Council Member shall cease speaking
until the question of order is determined. If it is determined that the Council Member is in order,
he/ she shall be permitted to proceed.
D. Rules of Order. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the latest edition of
Robert's Rules of Order, Revised, shall govern the conduct of the meetings of the Council.
Prior Code 2- 17. 4; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89-46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 130 Addressing the City Council - Request to Speak
No person shall address the City Council while the City Council is in session unless the
person has been recognized by the presiding officer and is invited to speak. Any member of the
public may request recognition from the presiding officer in order to address the City Council by
submitting a completed Request to Speak form to the City Clerk or the designee prior to or
during the meeting.
Prior Code 2- 17. 5; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2002-
9, Amended, 03/ 29/ 02)
Section 2. 12. 140 Addressing the City Council - Recognition and Time Limits
A. Recognition. A member of the public who is recognized to speak to the City
Council shall speak from the podium designated for such purpose, and shall begin by giving his
or her name and mailing address for the public record.
B. Time Limits. Unless additional time is granted by order of the presiding officer or
upon majority vote of the City Council, no member of the public shall address the City Council
for a period longer than three minutes from the time recognized. The presiding officer shall
inform the speaking member of the public when the three minute time limit has expired and
thereupon the speaker shall discontinue further comment.
C. If two or more members of an identified group of persons having a common
interest in an agenda matter file requests to address the City Council on the matter, the
presiding officer may request the group to designate one or more representatives who will
address the City Council on behalf of the group on that matter.
Prior Code 2- 17. 6; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2002-
9, Amended, 03/ 29/ 02)
Section 2. 12. 150 City Council Meetings - Order and Decorum
A. Presiding Officer. While the City Council is in session, the presiding officer at all
times shall maintain order and decorum at the meeting. The presiding officer is authorized to
designate any law enforcement officer attending a meeting of the City Council as a Sergeant at
2. 12 ( 5) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Arms for such meeting and may direct the officer so designated to assist the presiding officer in
maintaining order and decorum at the meeting.
B. City Council Members. Members of the City Council shall avoid disruption or
unreasonable delay of the City Council proceedings, and shall not interrupt or disturb any other
Member of the City Council who has the floor, but shall wait to be recognized by the presiding
officer. Members of the City Council shall conform to the orders of the presiding officer unless,
by majority vote of the City Council upon a motion and second, such orders are overruled by the
City Council.
C. Members of the Public. Every member of the public attending a meeting of the
City Council shall observe and conform to the following rules of conduct:
1. No person shall seek or attempt to disrupt a meeting of the City Council
by making any statement against the reputation, character or motive of any person.
2. No person shall seek or attempt to disrupt a meeting of the City Council
by making any statement that is intended to inflame passion or anger, or is purely of a personal
nature, or is defamatory, slanderous, impertinent, or profane.
3. No person shall make any noise, whistle, shout, sing, applaud, or
disparage any speaker, or commit other acts, with the intent of disrupting, disturbing, or delaying
the City Council proceedings.
4. No person shall bring into the place where the City Council is meeting any
knife, gun, chain, rope, rock, stick, pole, board, or other material that is capable of causing harm
or injury to persons, including any such materials used to support or to display any sign, placard
or symbol.
5. No person shall address the City Council until having been recognized by
the presiding officer.
6. Every person addressing the City Council on a matter appearing on the
agenda shall avoid making repetitious or irrelevant statements to the issue being discussed.
7. Every person addressing the City Council under Opportunities for Public
Comment ( Oral Communications) on matters not appearing on the agenda shall avoid making
statements concerning issues that are not within the subject matter jurisdiction of the City
Council.
8. A person having been ruled out of order by the presiding officer shall
immediately conform to the orders of the presiding officer, and to the orders of any designated
Sergeant at Arms acting under authority of law or by order of the presiding officer. Any person
who refuses when ordered to conform to the rules of conduct is subject to being removed from
the place of the meeting of the City Council by order of the presiding officer.
D. Prohibited Conduct. No person shall intentionally disrupt, disturb or interfere with
the proceedings of a meeting of the City Council. A person shall be deemed to have
intentionally disrupted, disturbed or interfered with the proceedings of a meeting of the City
Council if the person refuses or does not come to order, after having been ruled out of order by
the presiding officer, or refuses or does not comply with or obey the lawful order of any law
enforcement officer engaged in restoring order upon the direction of the presiding officer of the
City Council. A violation of this Subsection D is a misdemeanor which shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $ 1, 000, imprisonment in the county jail for up to six months, or both.
Prior Code 2- 17. 7; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2002-
9, Amended, 03/ 29/ 02)
2. 12 ( 6) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 12. 160 Persons Authorized to Approach Council Table
No person, except City officials, their representatives and representatives of news
gathering agencies shall be permitted to approach the Council table without the consent of the
Council.
Prior Code 2- 17. 8; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 170 Entry of Protests in Minutes
Any Council Member by request shall have the right to have the reasons for dissent from
or protest against an action of the Council entered in the minutes.
Prior Code 2- 17. 9; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 180 Roll Call Votes
A roll call vote shall be taken upon the passage of all Ordinances and orders for the
payment of money and shall be entered in the minutes of the City Council showing those
Council Members voting for, those voting against, and those not voting or absent. Upon request
of any Council Member, a roll call vote shall be taken and recorded on any action.
Prior Code 2- 17. 10; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 190 Relationship between Council and City Manager
City Council is to deal through the City Manager. The City Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative staff of the City only through the City Manager, except for the
purpose of inquiry. Neither City Council nor any Council Member shall give orders to any
subordinates of the City Manager.
Prior Code 2- 17. 11; Ord. No. 69- 36, Amended 6/ 16/ 69; Ord. No. 89- 46, Amended, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 2. 12. 200 Smoking Prohibited in Council Chambers
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke tobacco in any form in the Council
Chambers of the City Council.
Prior Code 2- 10. 1, Ord. No. 75- 25, Amended, 5/ 28/ 75)
Section 2. 12. 210 Posting of " No Smoking" Area
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Director of Public Works to post or cause to
be posted the area referred to in Section 2. 12. 020 as a " No Smoking" area by placing and
maintaining signs stating " No Smoking" in conspicuous places within said area which are
sufficient in size and form to communicate the intent of Section 2. 12. 200.
Prior Code 2- 10. 2, Ord. No. 75- 25, Amended, 5/ 28/ 75)
Section 2. 12. 220 Failure to Post " No Smoking" Area
Section 2. 12. 200 shall not be enforced unless at least one " No Smoking" sign meeting
the requirements of Section 2. 12. 210 is visible from all portions of said Council Chambers, and
is in place at the time of the alleged violation.
Prior Code 2- 10. 3, Ord. No. 75- 25, Amended, 5/ 28/ 75)
2. 12 ( 7) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 12. 230 Violation of Section 2. 12. 200  Penalty
Any person who violates Section 2. 12. 200 is guilty of an infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 2- 10. 4; Ord. No. 75- 25, Amended, 5/ 28/ 75)
Section 2. 12. 240 Ordinances, Resolutions
A. The provisions of Article 2 ( Enactment) of Chapter 2 ( Ordinances), Part 2
Legislative Body), Division 3 ( Officers), Title 4 ( Government of Cities), of the California
Government Code shall not apply within the chartered City of Vista except as follows: Sections
36933 ( relating to the publication of ordinances), 36936. 1 ( relating to the fixing of tax rates), and
36937 ( relating to the effective date of ordinances) shall continue to apply within the City as
currently enacted and as they may be amended from time to time.
B. The enacting clause of ordinances shall be: " The people of the chartered City of
Vista do ordain as follows:"
C. Resolutions, orders for the payment of money, and all ordinances require a
recorded majority vote of a quorum of the City Council.
D. Ordinances receiving a four-fifths vote of the City Council at introduction shall be
immediately adopted without further City Council action. Otherwise, ordinances shall not be
adopted on the same day as their introduction unless one or more members of the City Council
are unable to participate in the vote on an ordinance because of a declared conflict of interest,
in which case a majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to immediately adopt the ordinance.
Ordinances may be adopted at any regular or special meeting of the City Council.
E. Procedural requirements mandated by specific state statutes constitutionally
applicable to charter cities shall be followed where in conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
F. Insofar as they may be applicable, the provisions of this chapter shall also apply
to and be deemed incorporated into the bylaws of the Community Development Commission of
the City of Vista pursuant to Health & Safety Code Section 33204, and the subordinate
commissions, boards, committees and advisory bodies of the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2008- 32, Added, 12/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 5, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10)
Section 2. 12.250 Robert' s Rules of Order
The procedures prescribed in Robert's Rules of Order shall be modified as follows:
A. A motion to reconsider an action may be made only during the same meeting
that the action was taken.
B. The number of votes required to rescind an action must be at least the same
number of votes as were cast to approve the action being rescinded or a majority of the
members of the City Council, whichever is less.
C. Final action on a quasi-judicial decision can only be taken through the adoption
of a resolution and not by minute order or oral announcement. Final action taken on a quasijudicial
decision cannot be reconsidered or rescinded.
D. Abstentions shall be counted for purposes of determining a quorum except in the
case of abstentions required by the Political Reform Act or other applicable law governing
conflicts of interest. An action is approved by a majority vote consisting of more than one- half of
the votes cast, excluding abstentions. No action shall be taken, however, without at least two
affirmative votes.
Ord. No. 2008- 32, Added, 12/ 9/ 08)
2. 12 ( 8) Vista 1/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2. 16
City Council Elections
Sections:
2. 16. 010 City Councilmembers
2. 16. 020 City Councilmember Districts
2. 16. 030 Election Schedule
2. 16. 040 Vacancies
2. 16. 050 Mayor
2. 16. 060 Deputy Mayor
Section 2. 16. 010 City Council
A. The office of City Councilmember shall be filled through by- district elections,
pursuant to California Government Code Section 34886, beginning in November 2018, pursuant
to the schedule established in Section 2. 16. 030 of this Chapter.
1. City Councilmembers shall be elected in the electoral districts established
by Section 2. 16. 120 of this Chapter and subsequently reapportioned pursuant to applicable State
and Federal law. Elections shall take place on a by- district basis as that term is defined in
California Government Code Section 34871, pursuant to subdivision ( c) of that section.
2. Except as provided in subdivision ( 3) of this section, the Councilmember
elected to represent a district must reside in that district and be a registered voter in that district,
and any candidate for City Council must live in, and be a registered voter in, the district in which
he or she seeks election at the time nomination papers are issued, pursuant to California
Government Code section 34882 and Elections Code section 10227. Termination of residency in
a district by a Council Member shall create an immediate vacancy for that Council district unless
a substitute residence within the district is established within thirty (30) days after the termination
of residency.
3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, City Councilmembers
in office at the time the Ordinance codified in this chapter takes effect shall continue in office until
the expiration of the full term to which he or she was elected and until his or her successor is
qualified. At the end of the term of each Council Member that Member' s successor shall be elected
on a by- district basis in the districts established in Section 2. 16. 020 and as provided in
Section 2. 16. 030.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
Section 2. 16. 020 City Councilmember Districts
A. Subject to Section 2. 16.030, City Councilmembers shall be elected on a by-district
basis from the Council districts depicted on the Official District Map attached as Exhibit 1 to this
Section and incorporated by this reference.
B. The Council districts specified in subdivision (A) shall continue in effect until they
are amended or repealed in accordance with law.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
Section 2. 16. 030 Election Schedule
Except as otherwise required by California Government Code section 36512, City
Councilmembers shall be elected in Council Districts 1 and 4 beginning at the General Municipal
2. 16 ( l) Vista 6/ 14/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Election in November 2018, and every four years thereafter, as such Council districts shall be
amended. Councilmembers shall be elected in Council Districts 2 and 3 beginning at the General
Municipal Election in November 2020, and every four years thereafter, as such Council districts
shall be amended. The election schedule for the Mayor is not affected by this Section.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
Section 2. 16. 040 Vacancies
Any mid- term Council seat vacancy in any District shall be filled in accordance with State
Law, only by an eligible resident of that District.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
Section 2. 16. 050 Mayor
A. The term of office of the Mayor shall be four years.
B. The four-year term will first apply to the election for the Office of Mayor held
in 1990.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
Section 2. 16. 060 Deputy Mayor
A. Deputy Mayor Established. It is the pleasure of the City Council that the Office of
Deputy Mayor, otherwise described under Section 36801 of the California Government Code as
Mayor Pro Tempore, be established, and that the term of office of the Deputy Mayor be for a term
of one year, commencing on January 1 of each year. In the event that a successor has not been
named or appointed by the City Council for any year, the incumbent of the Office of Deputy Mayor
shall continue in office until such time as the incumbent has been re- appointed or a successor
has been appointed.
B. Time of Appointment. During each year in which a General Municipal Election is
held to elect one or more Members of the City Council, the City Council shall consider the
appointment or re- appointment of one of its members to serve as Deputy Mayor for the following
year. In all other years, the City Council shall consider the appointment or re-appointment of one
of its members to serve as Deputy Mayor for the following year at the first regular full meeting of
the City Council held in the month of December of the immediately preceding year.
Ord. No. 17- 8, Repealed and Replaced 6/ 13/ 17)
2. 16 ( 2) Vista 6/ 14/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
City of Vista
Voting Districts
Adopted June 13, 2017
n
iret -
to HS HS
z w
R n,
Calvary
Christian HS
Vista Magnet
qahn n`
l-'. i/igtA be
MS n _
t
Jr HS
Br, ill
r
T
National
ELECTION YEARS y
2015: Districts 1 & 4
2020: Districts 2& 3 i n, r
r
r
CITY OF VISTA
2. 16 ( 3) Vista 6/ 14/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2. 18
General Provisions and Requirements Affecting
City Commissions, Boards and Committees
Sections:
2. 18.010 Applicability
2. 18.020 Discrimination Prohibited
2. 18.030 Sole Authority to Establish a City Commission, Board or Committee and to
Convey Powers to Act
2. 18.040 Express Delegation of Authority to Act is Required
2. 18.045 Conduct of Members
2. 18.050 Conflict of Interest Code Requirements
2. 18.060 Qualifications for Appointment
2. 18.070 Procedures for Application and Appointment of Members
2. 18.080 Standard Terms for Appointment of Members; Termination Dates;
Unexpired Terms; and Continuation until Successor is Appointed
2. 18.090 Organization of City Commissions, Boards and Committees; Rules of
Procedure
2. 18.095 Order and Decorum
2. 18. 100 City Manager Shall Determine Staff Assistance Required
2. 18. 110 Compensation, Reimbursement of Expenses
2. 18. 120 Removal of Members; Abandonment of Office
Section 2. 18.010 Applicability
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all commissions, boards or committees of
the City, and to the appointment of members to any City commission, board or committee,
unless otherwise required by state or federal law or regulation. The provisions of this chapter
shall supersede and prevail over any conflicting provision of this code, or of any ordinance,
resolution or other action, previously adopted or approved by the City Council.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 8, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 18.020 Discrimination Prohibited
In making any nomination, appointment, or approval of an appointment to any City
commission, board or committee, no person shall discriminate against any applicant because of
the applicant' s sex, race, creed, color, or national or ethnic origin.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 2. 18.030 Sole Authority to Establish a City Commission, Board or Committee
and to Convey Powers to Act
A City commission, board or committee may be established only upon adoption of a
resolution or ordinance by the City Council which sets forth and determines the purposes,
powers, authorities, duties, responsibilities, and limitations of the commission, board or
committee. A City commission, board and committee may be constituted as either a standing or
an ad hoc commission, board or committee. As permitted by law, the City Council may, by
express delegation and assignment, convey specified powers and authorities to a commission,
board or committee to act on behalf of the City Council, or may limit the powers and authorities
2. 18 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
of a commission, board or committee to act in an advisory capacity to the City Council, including
the authority to investigate, study and make recommendations to the City Council on any matter
within its purview.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013-8, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 18.040 Express Delegation of Authority to Act is Required
Every commission, board or committee of the City is an agent of the City Council and it
possesses and may exercise only those powers and authorities that are expressly delegated to
it by ordinance or resolution of the City Council. Any action taken by any City commission,
board or committee in excess of such expressly delegated power and authority is not binding
upon the City. Unless powers and authorities to act on behalf of the City Council have been
expressly delegated to a City commission, board or committee, the commission, board or
committee shall be deemed strictly to be an advisory agent to the City Council, without the
power and authority to act in any way that is binding upon the City.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 2. 18.045 Conduct of Members
Outside of commission, board or committee meetings, members shall act only within the
express authority delegated by the City Council and with prior authorization of the staff liaison.
All marketing/ promotional materials and media contact must be approved by, and in
coordination with, the staff liaison. Members may not claim to represent the commission, board
or committee outside of meetings or activities of the commission, board or committees. Under
no circumstance shall members participate in political activities while representing the
commission, board or committee; this includes, but is not limited, using the title " Commissioner",
Board Member", or " Committee Member" when supporting or opposing political issues. Use of
titles is limited to those activities and communications dealing solely with commission, board or
committee business.
Ord. No. 2019- 6, Added, 02/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 18.050 Conflict of Interest Code Requirements
The provisions of Chapter 2. 32 of the Vista Municipal Code, pertaining to the Conflict of
Interest Code, shall apply to all members appointed to all City commissions, boards, and
committees, subject to any exceptions permitted under the official regulations of the Fair
Political Practices Commission for an " ad hoc" commission, board or committee, the powers and
authorities of which are strictly advisory.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 2. 18.060 Qualifications for Appointment
A. General Qualifications. Except as provided herein below, no person shall be
appointed to any commission, board or committee of the City, unless that person is deemed
qualified pursuant to the requirements of this section. A person is qualified for appointment to
any commission, board or committee of the City if, at the time of appointment, the person
satisfies all of the following conditions:
1. The person is a bona fide resident of the City of Vista,
2. The person is at least 18 years of age, and
3. The person is not employed by the City of Vista.
2. 18 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Exceptions. The following exceptions to the general qualifications for
appointments under Subdivision A, above, shall be permitted:
1. Waiver of the Residency Requirement.
a. Whenever the City Council finds it in the best interests of the City,
the City Council may, by a vote of a three- fifths majority of the City Council taken in open public
meeting and made a part of the record of proceedings, waive the residency qualification for the
appointment of any individual to any commission, board or committee.
b. Whenever the City Council has designated a seat for an outside
agency representative or business representative, the City Council may, by a three-fifths
majority vote of the City Council at an open public meeting and made a part of the record of the
proceedings, waive the residency qualification for the appointment of any commission, board or
committee, provided that:
i. The person is a bona fide representative of the respective
outside organization; or
ii. The person has a business located in the City of Vista.
2. Waiver of the Minimum Age Requirement. Whenever the City Council
provides for the establishment of a youth advisory commission, or for the appointment of a
youth representative to another City commission, board or committee, the City Council may, by
a three- fifths majority vote of the City Council at an open public meeting and made a part of the
record of the proceedings, waive the minimum age requirement for the appointment of any
member of such youth commission, or any youth representative to any other City commission,
board or committee, provided that, at the time of appointment the person for whom the minimum
age requirement is waived meets the following additional requirements:
a. The person is a registered student, including a student enrolled in
a home- school program, who is attending any public or licensed private school, whether located
within or without the boundaries of the City of Vista.
b. The person has successfully completed the eighth grade, or its
equivalent.
C. Additional Qualifications. In order to accomplish the intended purposes of a City
commission, board or committee, the City Council may establish additional qualifications for
appointment of any members to a commission, board or committee. Such additional
qualifications for appointment shall be set forth in the ordinance or resolution establishing the
commission, board or committee. The City Clerk shall maintain a register of additional
qualifications, if any, for appointment of members to each City commission, board or committee.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2001- 1, Amended, 02/ 23/ 01; Ord. No. 2006- 2, Amended,
01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 8, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended, 02/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 18. 070 Procedures for Application and Appointment of Members
The City Council by resolution shall establish appropriate policies and procedures for
receiving and processing the application of any person who desires to be considered for
appointment to any City commission, board or committee. The policies and procedures
established by the City Council shall be designed to: ( 1) encourage and promote broad- based
citizen participation in the affairs of the City; ( 2) establish the eligibility and qualifications of
candidates for appointment to the various City commissions, boards and committees; and ( 3)
assist the Mayor and City Council in considering, making and approving appointments of those
eligible candidates who are best qualified to serve on the City' s commissions, boards and
committees. The policies and procedures shall identify and comply with all applicable laws
pertaining to publication of notices, recruitment, and selection of candidates.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
2. 18 ( 3) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 18.080 Standard Terms for Appointment of Members; Termination Dates;
Unexpired Terms; and Continuation until Successor is Appointed
A. Standard Term of Appointment. Unless the ordinance or resolution establishing
the City commission, board or committee provides otherwise, or as provided by this section,
every member appointed to a City commission, board or committee shall be appointed for a
four-year term of office. Unless the ordinance or resolution establishing the City commission,
board or committee provides otherwise, or as provided by this section, every youth member
appointed to a City commission, board or committee shall be appointed for a one-year term of
office.
B. Standard Termination Date. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to
the contrary, there shall be a uniform date of termination for all appointments to any City
commission, board and committee. The date of termination for all appointments shall be March
31 of the year in which the term expires.
C. Staggering of Terms. To the extent possible, the terms of all members of any
standing City commission, board or committee shall be evenly staggered in each year so that
the number of members of the standing body whose terms expire in any single year is less than
a quorum of the members of that commission, board or committee. In the event it becomes
necessary to shorten any terms in order to establish or maintain a pattern of staggered terms,
those members of the commission, board or committee shall determine the order of expiration
of term for each member by random selection. The City Clerk shall cause the random selection
to occur and shall promptly notify each member.
D. Unexpired Terms. In order to maintain a system of uniform termination dates
and staggering of terms, it is necessary that persons appointed to vacated seats on any
standing City commission, board or committee shall be appointed to fill only the unexpired term
of the person previously appointed, and may be considered for re- appointment when the
unexpired term has expired. The City Clerk shall establish and maintain a record of the term
and expiration date for each member of each City commission, board or committee.
E. Succession. Upon the expiration of any appointment, in the event a successor to
that appointment has not been named, the person then holding the appointment shall have the
right to continue in that appointment as a member of the commission, board or committee until a
successor has been appointed.
Ord. No. 1999- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 8, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2017- 18, Amended
11/ 14/ 17)
Section 2. 18.090 Organization of City Commissions, Boards and Committees; Rules
of Procedure
A. Quorum. Fifty-one percent of members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
B. Rules of Procedure. Every standing City commission, board or committee shall
adopt and maintain Rules of Procedure concerning the conduct of business, which shall
conform to all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances. The Rules of Procedure shall serve
the same function as by- laws. One copy of the Rules of Procedure shall be forwarded to the
City Clerk and one copy shall be brought to every meeting of the commission, board or
committee by the Secretary.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 8, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 18.095 Order and Decorum
A. Presiding Officer. While the commission, board, or committee is in session, the
2. 18 ( 4) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
presiding officer at all times shall maintain order and decorum at the meeting.
B. Commission, Board, and Committee Members. Members of the commission,
board, or committee shall avoid disruption or unreasonable delay of the proceedings, and shall
not interrupt or disturb any other Member of the commission, board, or committee who has the
floor, but shall wait to be recognized by the presiding officer. Members of the commission,
board, or committee shall conform to the orders of the presiding officer unless, by majority vote
upon a motion and second, such orders are overruled by the commission, board, or committee.
C. Members of the Public. Every member of the public attending a meeting of a
commission, committee, or board shall observe and conform to the following rules of conduct:
1. No person shall seek or attempt to disrupt a meeting by making any
statement against the reputation, character or motive of any person.
2. No person shall seek or attempt to disrupt a meeting by making any
statement that is intended to inflame passion or anger, or is purely of a personal nature, or is
defamatory, slanderous, impertinent, or profane.
3. No person shall make any noise, whistle, shout, sing, applaud, or
disparage any speaker, or commit other acts, with the intent of disrupting, disturbing, or delaying
the proceedings.
4. No person shall bring into the place where the commission, board, or
committee is meeting any knife, gun, chain, rope, rock, stick, pole, board, or other material that
is capable of causing harm or injury to persons, including any such materials used to support or
to display any sign, placard or symbol.
5. No person shall address the commission, board, or committee until
having been recognized by the presiding officer.
6. Every person addressing the commission, board, or committee on a
matter appearing on the agenda shall avoid making repetitious or irrelevant statements to the
issue being discussed.
7. Every person addressing the commission, board, or committee under
Opportunities for Public Comment ( Oral Communications) on matters not appearing on the
agenda shall avoid making statements concerning issues that are not within the subject matter
jurisdiction of the commission, board, or committee.
8. A person having been ruled out of order by the presiding officer shall
immediately conform to the orders of the presiding officer. Any person who refuses when
ordered to conform to the rules of conduct is subject to being removed from the place of the
meeting of the commission, board, or committee by order of the presiding officer.
D. Prohibited Conduct. No person shall intentionally disrupt, disturb or interfere with
the proceedings of a meeting. A person shall be deemed to have intentionally disrupted,
disturbed or interfered with the proceedings of a meeting of the commission, board, or
committee if the person refuses or does not come to order, after having been ruled out of order
by the presiding officer. A violation of this Subsection D is a misdemeanor which shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $ 1, 000, imprisonment in the county jail for up to six months,
or both.
Ord. No. 2019- 6, Added, 02/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 18. 100 City Manager Shall Determine Staff Assistance Required
Notwithstanding any other provision in any ordinance or resolution to the contrary, and
following consultation with the Chairperson of the City commission, board or committee, the City
Manager shall determine the amount and level of City staff assistance and services required to
be provided to each commission, board or committee in order to accomplish its purposes. The
City Manager shall appoint individual staff members to assist each commission, board or
committee, to the extent the City Council has provided appropriations for the purpose. When
2. 18 ( 5) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
designated by the City Manager, the staff member so designated shall serve as the Secretary to
the commission, board or committee. The City Manager shall include recommendations for the
level of staff assistance required, and for other expenses to be incurred by a commission, board
or committee, in the recommended budget presented to the City Council.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 2. 18. 110 Compensation, Reimbursement of Expenses
Members of City commissions, boards or committees shall serve without compensation,
unless express provision is made for such compensation by the City Council. Notwithstanding
the preceding prohibition, and subject to prior authorization from the commission, board or
committee or the City Manager, all members of a City commission, board or committee shall be
entitled to reimbursement for actual costs and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the member
in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of office and to the extent that funds for such
reimbursements are appropriated for the purpose by the City Council.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 2. 18. 120 Removal of Members; Abandonment of Office
A. Removal by the City Council. All members of City commissions, boards and
committees are appointed officers of the City and shall hold office at the pleasure of the City
Council. Any member who has been appointed to a City commission, board or committee may
be removed from that office either with or without cause upon three-fifths vote of the City
Council. In making a decision to remove a member of a City commission, board, or committee,
the City Council shall take care not to infringe upon or violate any constitutionally protected right
of the member.
B. Abandonment of Office. Whenever any member of a City commission, board or
committee, without having given prior written notice or reason to the City Clerk or to the
designated Secretary of the commission, board or committee, fails to attend three successive
meetings of the commission, board or committee, or fails to attend more than 50% of the
regularly scheduled meetings of the board, commission or committee held in any consecutive
12 month period, the member shall be deemed to have abandoned his or her office, and the
City Clerk shall declare the office vacant. The City Clerk shall send a written notice of such
abandonment and vacation of office to the member deemed to have abandoned the office, with
copies to the Chairperson of the commission, board or committee and to the City Council.
Within ten calendar days of the written notice being sent to the member, the member may
appeal the abandonment in writing to the City Council, stating the reasons and causes why the
office shall not be deemed abandoned, and the City Council shall determine whether or not to
reinstate the member. In making such decision, the City Council shall request a report on the
member's participation from the staff liaison or secretary of the commission, board or
committee.
Ord. No. 99- 13, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended, 02/ 26/ 19)
2. 18 ( 6) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.20
City Manager
Sections:
2. 20.010 Office Established
2. 20.020 Administrative and Enforcement Powers
2. 20.030 Powers and Duties
2. 20.040 Additional Powers and Duties
2. 20.050 Eligibility for Office - Bond - Acting City Manager
2. 20.060 Removal from Office - Conditions
2. 20.070 Compensation - Reimbursement of Expenses
2. 20.080 Vesting of Authority to Appoint the City Clerk
Section 2. 20.010 Office Established
The Office of the City Manager is established.
Prior Code 2- 18( A); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.020 Administrative and Enforcement Powers
The City Manager shall be the Chief Executive and Administrative Officer of the City
government, and shall enforce the laws of the City and require the faithful performance of all
administrative duties.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 1); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.030 Powers and Duties
A. General Duties. The City Manager shall be the administrative head of the
government of the City under the direction and control of the City Council, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. He shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all the affairs
of the City which are under his control. In addition to his general powers as administrative head,
and not as a limitation thereon, it shall be his duty and he shall have the powers set out in the
following subsections.
B. Authority to Appoint and Remove Employees. The City Manager shall appoint
competent, qualified officers and employees to the administrative service and shall have the
power to dismiss, suspend and discipline all officers and employees in the administrative
service under his control. He shall also have the power to authorize a department head or
officer responsible to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under that department
head or officer.
C. Appointments to Acting Capacity. The City Manager shall designate himself or
some other officer or employee to perform the duties of any officer or position in the
administrative service under his control which is vacant or which lacks administration due to the
absence or disability of the incumbent.
D. Annual Report. The City Manager shall prepare and present to the City Council
an annual report of the City' s affairs, including a summary of reports of department heads, and
such other reports as the City Council shall require.
E. Budget Report. The City Manager shall assemble estimates of the financial
needs and resources of the City for each ensuing year, and shall prepare a program of activities
2. 20 ( l) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
within the financial power of the City, embodying in it a budget document with proper supporting
schedules and analyses.
F. Council- Manager Relations. The City Council and its members shall deal with
the administrative services of the City only through the City Manager, except for the purpose of
inquiry. Should any Council Member make an inquiry, it shall be for the purpose of compiling
facts and data for possible future action by the City Council. In no event shall action be taken
after completion of the inquiry without City Council approval. The City Manager shall take his
orders and instructions from the City Council as a body, and no individual Council Member shall
give any orders or instructions to the City Manager or his subordinates. Once decisions have
been made by the City Council as a body, it shall be final and conclusive. Further reference to
any such decision of the City Council shall not be made by the City Manager except to the City
Council as a whole.
G. Enforcement of Laws. The City Manager shall see that the laws of the State
pertaining to the City and all laws and ordinances of the City are duly enforced, and that all
franchises, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the City are faithfully observed.
H. Attendance of Meetings. The City Manager shall attend all meetings of the City
Council unless excused therefrom by the City Council, except when his removal is under
consideration by the City Council.
I. Recommendations to City Council. The City Manager shall recommend to the
City Council for adoption such measures and ordinances as he deems necessary or expedient.
The City Manager shall keep the City Council at all times fully advised as to the financial
conditions and needs of the City. The City Manager shall make such other reports and
recommendations as may be desirable or as requested by the City Council.
J. Purchases. The City Manager shall purchase, or cause to be purchased by
some officer designated by him, all supplies and equipment for all of the departments or
divisions of the City. All purchases and expenditures for purchases shall be made in
accordance with procedures established by ordinance.
K. Service in Other City Offices. The City Manager shall serve in any appointed
office within the City government to which he may be qualified when appointed thereto by the
City Council, and to hold and perform duties thereof at the pleasure of the City Council.
L. Miscellaneous Duties. The City Manager shall perform such other duties and
exercise such other powers as may be delegated to him from time to time by ordinance or
resolution or other action of the City Council.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 1); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.040 Additional Powers and Duties
A. Prescribe Rules. The City Manager shall have the power to prescribe such rules
and regulations as he shall deem necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative
agencies subject to his authority; and he shall have the power to revoke, suspend or amend any
rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed.
B. Investigate. The City Manager shall have the power, either by himself or by any
officer or person designated for the purpose by him, to investigate and to examine or inquire into
the affairs or operation of any department, division, bureau or office; and when so authorized by
the City Council, he shall have power to employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in
such investigations, examinations or inquiries.
C. Overrule Officials. The City Manager shall have the power to set aside any
action taken by a department head and may supersede him in the functions of his office.
D. Delegate Duties. The City Manager shall have the power to direct any
department, division or bureau to perform the work for any other department, division or bureau.
2. 20 ( 2) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Appoint Administrative Committees. The City Manager shall have the power to
designate from the administrative service such committees and the officers thereof as he shall
find necessary for the proper consideration of administrative problems. Such committees shall
meet at the request of the administrator and shall make such recommendation on matters
referred to them as they find necessary for the best interests of the City.
F. Appear before City Council. The City Manager shall have the power to appear
before and address the City Council at any meeting.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 2); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.050 Eligibility for Office - Bond - Acting City Manager
A. Eligibility. No person elected as a Council Member of the City shall, subsequent
to such election, be eligible for appointment as City Manager until one year has elapsed after
such Council Member shall have ceased to be a Member of the City Council.
B. Bond Required. The City Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the City Council in such sum as may be determined by the City Council and shall
be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon the City Manager as
prescribed in this chapter. Any premium for such bond shall be a proper charge against the
City.
C. Acting City Manager. The City Manager shall designate an officer of the City to
serve as acting City Manager during any temporary absence or disability of the City Manager.
In the event or failure to make such designation, the City Council may appoint an officer to
perform the duties of the City Manager during the period of absence or disability of the City
Manager.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 3); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.060 Removal from Office - Conditions
A. Vote Required. The removal of the City Manager shall be only upon a three
member vote of the whole City Council in the City in regular Council meeting, subject, however,
to the provisions of the following subsections. In case of his intended removal by the City
Council, the City Manager shall be furnished with a written notice stating the City Council' s
intention to remove him. The effective date of his removal shall be shown upon the written
notice.
B. Request for Hearing. Within seven days after the delivery to the City Manager of
such notice, he may, by written notification to the City Clerk, request a hearing before the City
Council. Thereafter, the City Council shall fix a time for the hearing which shall be held at its
usual meeting place, at which the City Manager shall appear and be heard.
C. Discretion of City Council. In removing the City Manager, the City Council shall
use its uncontrolled discretion and its action shall be final and shall not depend upon any
particular showing or degree of proof at the hearing, the purpose of which is to allow the City
Manager to present to the City Council his grounds of opposition to his removal.
D. Limitations.
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter hereinbefore enumerated,
the City Manager shall not be removed from office during or within a period of 90 days
succeeding any general municipal election held in the City at which election a member of the
City Council is elected; the purpose of this provision is to allow any newly elected member of the
City Council or a reorganized City Council to observe the actions and ability of the City Manager
in the performance of the powers and duties of his office.
2. After the expiration of the 90- day period mentioned in Paragraph 1 of this
subsection, the provisions of the preceding subsection as to the removal of the City Manager
2. 20 ( 3) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
shall apply and be effective, except where the City Manager is accused of committing acts of
moral turpitude or of a violation of any law which would bring disrepute upon his office or has
committed any acts of dishonesty, the City Council may forthwith discharge the City Manager
upon a majority vote of the City Council without a hearing.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 4); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.070 Compensation - Reimbursement of Expenses
A. The City Manager shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as
the City Council shall from time to time determine, and said compensation and expenses shall
be a proper charge against such funds of the City as the City Council shall designate.
B. The City Manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred or paid
by him in the performance of his duties or incurred when traveling on business pertaining to the
City under direction of the City Council. Reimbursement shall only be made, however, when an
itemized claim, setting forth the sums expended and for which reimbursement is requested, has
been presented to the City Council for approval.
Prior Code 2- 18( B. 5); Ord. No. 69- 47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 83- 46, Amended 8/ 22/ 83)
Section 2. 20.080 Vesting of Authority to Appoint the City Clerk
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, pursuant to Section
36510 of the California Government Code, the City Council vests in the City Manager the
authority to appoint the City Clerk. Such authority shall be broadly construed to include, with
respect to the City Clerk, all the authority granted to the City Manager within this chapter.
Prior Code 2- 19; Ord. No. 69-47, Amended 8/ 18/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71; Ord. No. 73- 47,
Amended 11/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2003- 21, Amended, 08/ 26/ 03)
2. 20 ( 4) Vista 1/ 30/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.22
City Attorney and City Prosecutor
Sections:
2. 22.010 Office Established
2. 22.020 Appointment; Qualifications
2. 22.030 Powers and Duties
2. 22.040 Records
Section 2. 22.010 Office Established
The Office of City Attorney and City Prosecutor is established. The City Attorney shall
be the Chief Legal Officer of the City and also serve as the City Prosecutor. The Office of the
City Attorney and City Prosecutor shall be an entity separate and distinct from all other offices
and departments. The City Attorney shall investigate and enforce City laws and regulations
through office hearings and court proceedings, both civil and criminal. The City Attorney shall
have the management and control of the Office of City Attorney and City Prosecutor subject to
all applicable personnel ordinances, rules and regulations.
Ord. No. 2008- 31, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 2. 22.020 Appointment; Qualifications
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Council and shall serve at the Council' s
pleasure. The City Attorney shall be an attorney-at- law duly admitted to practice law in the
State of California.
Ord. No. 2008- 31, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 2. 22.030 Powers and Duties
A. City Attorney Generally. In addition to the City Attorney' s general powers as the
Chief Legal Officer of the City, and not as a limitation thereon, as the City's civil legal advisor the
City Attorney shall:
1. Serve as the Chief Legal Officer of the Community Development
Commission, the Buena Sanitation District, and the Vista Joint Powers Financing Authority, as
well as the subordinate commissions, boards, committees and advisory bodies of the City of
Vista;
2. Appoint and remove all such assistants, deputies and clerical staff as the
Council may authorize;
3. Have charge and control of all outside counsel engaged to advise the City
Council and any officer or employee in all matters pertaining to their offices or duties, except as
otherwise provided by law or legal ethics;
4. Advise the City Council and all City officers and employees in all matters
of law pertaining to their offices or duties, or select outside counsel to so advise such persons
unless a different selection procedure has been adopted by the City Council;
5. Represent and appear for the City and all City officers and employees
and all former City officers or employees in any or all civil actions or proceedings in which the
City, or any officer or employee or former officer or employee thereof by reason of an act or
omission in the scope of officer's or employee' s employment is concerned or is a party, or shall
select outside counsel to so represent and appear for such persons;
2. 22 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
6. Have charge and control of all civil actions and proceedings in which the
City or any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, is concerned or is a party by
reason of an act or omission in the scope of his/ her employment;
7. Approve the form of all bonds given to the City and all specifications,
requests for proposals and contracts made by the City;
8. Approve all proposed ordinances and resolutions for the City;
9. Attend all City Council meetings, unless excused by the City Council;
10. Attend such meetings of other boards and commissions of the City as the
City Attorney deems appropriate or as the City Council may direct;
11. Perform such other duties relating to the office as shall be required of the
City Attorney by law, ordinance, or the City Council; and
12. Perform all responsibilities of the City Attorney in conformity with the
California Rules of Professional Conduct.
B. City Prosecutor Generally. In addition to the City Prosecutor' s general powers
under the laws of the State of California, and not as a limitation thereon, as the City' s criminal
legal advisor the City Attorney shall:
1. Prosecute all misdemeanor and infraction offenses committed within the
City arising out of violations of the laws of the City and provisions of the Charter of the City, and,
when authorized by the laws of this State, prosecute misdemeanor offenses committed within
the City arising out of violations of the laws of the State of California;
2. Handle all appeals arising as a consequence;
3. Draw complaints for such misdemeanors and infractions and prosecute
all recognizances of bail bond forfeitures arising from or resulting from the commission of such
offenses;
4. Have the power to issue subpoenas in a like manner as the district
attorney under the authority of California Government Code Section 41803. 7;
5. Perform such other duties relating to such office as shall be required by
law, ordinance, or the City Council; and
6. Perform all responsibilities of the City Prosecutor in conformity with
California Rules of Professional Conduct, a prosecutor' s duty of independence and impartiality,
and with unrestricted prosecutorial discretion.
Ord. No. 2008- 31, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 2. 22.040 Records
The City Attorney shall deliver all records, documents and property of every description
belonging to the Office of City Attorney and City Prosecutor or the City to the City Attorney' s
successor in office.
Ord. No. 2008- 31, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
2. 22 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.24
Director of Finance
Sections:
2. 24.010 Office Established - Authority
2. 24.020 Appointment
2. 24.030 Qualifications
2. 24.040 Eligibility
2. 24.050 Bond Required
2. 24.060 Compensation
2. 24.070 Powers and Duties
2. 24.080 Acting Director Designated
Section 2. 24.010 Office Established - Authority
The Office of Director of Finance is created and established. The Director of Finance
shall be the Chief Accounting Officer of the City and shall consolidate all accounting matters of
the City in this office, as an entirely separate and distinct entity from all other departments. The
Director of Finance shall also be the City Treasurer and shall have and exercise all of the
powers and duties pertaining to the Office of City Treasurer under the laws of the State and
ordinances of the City.
Prior Code 10- 1. 11; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71)
Section 2. 24.020 Appointment
This office shall be appointive. The Director of Finance shall be appointed by the City
Manager and the Director of Finance shall serve at and during the pleasure of the City
Manager.
Prior Code 10- 1. 11; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71)
Section 2. 24.030 Qualifications
The Director of Finance shall be qualified by sufficient technical accounting training, skill
and experience to be proficient in the office. The Director of Finance shall also show evidence
of his executive ability.
Prior Code 10- 1. 11; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71)
Section 2. 24.040 Eligibility
Residence in the City shall not be deemed a necessary qualification for appointment to
the Office of Director of Finance.
Prior Code 10. 1- 12; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69)
Section 2. 24.050 Bond Required
The Director of Finance shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be approved by the City
Council, in such sum as may be determined by the City Council and shall be conditioned on the
faithful performance of the duties imposed on the Director of Finance as described in this
chapter, provided that such bond shall be at least equal to the bond required of the City Clerk
2. 24 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
under provisions of Government Code, Section 36518. The bond fee shall be a proper charge
against such funds of the City as the City Council shall designate.
Prior Code 10. 1. 13; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69)
Section 2. 24.060 Compensation
The Director of Finance shall receive such compensation as the City Council shall from
time to time determine and fix by resolution, and the compensation shall be a proper charge
against such funds of the City as the City Council shall designate.
Prior Code 10. 1. 14; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69)
Section 2. 24.070 Powers and Duties
The Director of Finance shall be the City Treasurer and the Chief Accounting Officer for
the City under the direction and control of the City Manager. He shall be responsible for the
efficient administration of all the accounting functions for the City. All of the duties,
responsibilities and authority imposed upon the City Clerk as Chief Accounting Officer for the
City are transferred to and imposed upon the Director of Finance. He shall be responsible for
the efficient performance of the duties and responsibilities, namely, he shall:
A. Supervise and control all appointed personnel in the Finance Department.
B. Be responsible for all accounting functions of the City.
C. Have the authority to reassign employees under his supervision, temporarily or
permanently, to meet emergencies and volume growth requirements.
D. Administer laws and ordinances pertaining to taxes, licenses and permits.
E. Cause accounts to be kept of all funds, revenues, receipts, expenditures and
financial commitments of the City.
F. Apply budgetary control of expenditures in order that they will not exceed either
anticipated expenditures or actual receipts.
G. Collect and receive all monies of the City and keep proper records therefore.
H. Cause the performance of accounting control of storage and issuance of
materials and supplies.
I. Present to the City Manager an estimate, plan and program of the City's financial
activities.
J. Be custodian of the City' s permanent accounting records.
K. Prescribe and control forms and procedures of all other departments which
pertain to revenues, receipts or expenditures, in any manner.
L. Prepare and issue all warrants.
M. Prepare financial statements and statistical reports.
N. Prepare estimate of annual revenues and expenditures.
O. Perform cost accounting as directed by the City Manager.
P. Have the right to audit the accounting functions performed by all other
departments and divisions of the City.
Q. Perform all of the duties of City Treasurer as specified by the laws of the state
and ordinances of the City.
R. Perform such other functions as the City Manager may specify or as may be
prescribed by action of the Council.
Prior Code 10. 1. 15; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71)
2. 24 ( 2) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 24.080 Acting Director Designated
Should the Director of Finance be absent or disabled, the City Manager shall designate
an Acting Director of Finance.
Prior Code 10. 1. 16; Ord. No. 69- 52, Added 9/ 2/ 69)
2. 24 ( 3) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.28
Traffic Engineer
Sections:
2. 28.010 Office Established - Authority
2. 28.020 Powers and Duties - Delegation of Authority
Section 2. 28.010 Office Established - Authority
The Office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The City Traffic Engineer shall be
appointed by the City Manager and shall perform the duties as provided in this chapter and in
the traffic ordinances of this City. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer is required or authorized
to place or maintain official traffic control devices or signals, he may cause such devices or
signals to be placed or maintained.
Prior Code 18- 2; Ord. No. 17- 17, Added 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended 4/ 10/ 72)
Section 2. 28.020 Powers and Duties - Delegation of Authority
A. It shall be the general duty of the City Traffic Engineer to determine the
installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic control devices, to conduct engineering
analyses of traffic accidents and to devise remedial measures, to conduct engineering
investigation of traffic conditions, to plan the operation of traffic on streets and highways of this
City, and to cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to improve
traffic conditions, and to carry out the duties imposed by ordinances of this City.
B. The City Traffic Engineer shall have design approval authority on all trafficrelated
projects, plans and specifications, unless directed otherwise by the City Manager or the
City Engineer. The City Traffic Engineer shall exercise this authority by ensuring the designs of
the traffic-related projects, plans and specifications are reasonable based on the City Traffic
Engineer' s experience and training and in accordance with the standards of the industry. The
City Traffic Engineer shall record his or her approval by signing the approved plans. The City
Traffic Engineer shall exercise this design approval authority prior to advertising a public project
for bid, or in the case of public improvements constructed as part of a private development,
design approval authority shall be exercised prior to construction of the public improvements.
C. The duties of the City Traffic Engineer may be delegated to a person authorized
by him or to a deputy, provided the basic authority and responsibility remains with the City
Traffic Engineer.
Prior Code 18- 3; Ord. No. 17- 17, Added 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended 4/ 10/ 72; Ord. No. 2014- 18,
Amended 8/ 26/ 14)
2. 28 ( l) Vista 9/ 27/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.30
City Engineer
Sections:
2. 30.010 Office Established; Qualifications
2. 30.020 Duties
2. 30.030 Powers
2. 30.040 Ownership of Maps, Plans, etc., to Remain in City
2. 30.050 Responsibility for Maps, Plans; etc., to be Turned Over to Successor
2. 30.060 Outgoing City Engineer to Receive Duplicate Receipts for Records so
Turned Over
2. 30.070 Private Work by City Engineer
Section 2. 30.010 Office Established; Qualifications
The Office of City Engineer is established. The City Engineer shall be appointed by the
City Manager. The City Engineer shall be a registered engineer of the state and shall have had
actual experience both in professional and in municipal engineering work.
Ord. 89- 47, Ord. No. 2008-29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
Section 2. 30.020 Duties
A. Generally. The City Engineer shall do and perform or cause to be done the
following engineering work:
1. Surveying and engineering work in all activities of the City.
2. Establish the grades of all public streets, alleys, sewers, and storm
drains.
3. Prepare plans, specifications and estimates for all public projects.
4. Organize, direct and coordinate all engineering activities on public
projects, and may delegate such responsibility and authority to others.
5. Organize, direct and coordinate stormwater maintenance operations.
B. Design approval authority. The City Engineer shall have design approval
authority on all public projects, unless directed otherwise by the City Manager. The City
Engineer shall exercise the design approval authority prior to advertising the public project for
bid or in the case of public improvements constructed as part of a private development, design
approval authority shall be exercised prior to construction of the public improvements. City
Engineer shall exercise this authority by ensuring the design of the public project is reasonable
based on his experience and training and in accordance with the standards of the industry. The
City Engineer shall record his approval by signing the approved plans.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
Section 2. 30.030 Powers
A. The City Engineer shall possess the powers to make surveys, plats, designs,
reports and certificates as given to him by law of the City, county and state.
B. The City Engineer shall have the power to inspect, examine and make standard
tests of all public project works performed under the contract by the City.
C. The City Engineer shall have the authority to approve all Notices of Completion.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08; Ord. No. 2009- 5, Amended, 2/ 24/ 09)
2. 30 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 30.040 Ownership of Maps, Plans, etc., to Remain in City
All maps, plans, profiles, field notes, estimates, surveys, reports and other professional
work made by the City Engineer or under his direction shall remain the property of the City.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
Section 2. 30.050 Responsibility for Maps, Plans, etc., to be Turned Over to Successor
The City Engineer shall be responsible for all maps, plans, profiles, field notes,
estimates, designs, reports and other statistical records of construction, maintenance and
operation of all work under his direction while in office, and shall turn over to his successor all
works in proper order, condition and fully indexed.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
Section 2. 30.060 Outgoing City Engineer to Receive Duplicate Receipts
The retiring City Engineer shall receive duplicate receipts for records, maps, etc., turned
over to his successor pursuant to the preceding section from the City Clerk.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
Section 2. 30.070 Private Work by City Engineer
The City Engineer shall devote his entire working time to the City's service, and shall
undertake no engineering for private parties, without express written approval of the City
Manager.
Ord. No. 2008- 29, Enacted, 10/ 28/ 08)
2. 30 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.32
Conflict of Interest
Sections:
2. 32.010 Adoption of Conflict of Interest Code
2. 32.020 Filing Requirements
2. 32.030 Designated Employees
2. 32.040 Disclosure Categories
2. 32.050 Exemptions
Section 2. 32.010 Adoption of Conflict of Interest Code
Pursuant to the requirements and authority of the Political Reform Act of 1974, California
Government Code Section 81000, et seq., the provisions of Section 18730 of Title 2 of the
California Code of Regulations are incorporated herein and adopted by reference as the Conflict
of Interest Code of the City of Vista.
Prior Code 2- 40; Ord. No. 89- 47, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 94- 17, Amended, 08/ 09/ 94)
Section 2. 32.020 Filing Requirements
All persons required to file a financial disclosure statement pursuant to the Conflict of
Interest Code adopted under Section 2. 32.010 above shall file such statements with the City
Clerk of the City of Vista at such times and in the manner prescribed by the provisions of the
Conflict of Interest Code. Pursuant to Section 87500 of the Government Code, the City Clerk
shall make and retain a copy and forward the original of the financial disclosure statements of
the Mayor, City Council Members, Candidates for Mayor or for City Council Member, City
Manager, City Attorney, Members of the Planning Commission, and City Treasurer, to the Fair
Political Practices Commission. The City Clerk shall retain the originals of financial disclosure
statements of other public officials who manage public investments and all other financial
disclosure statements filed pursuant to this chapter.
Prior Code 2- 41; Ord. No. 89-47, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 94- 17, Amended, 08/ 09/ 94; Ord. No. 96- 14,
Amended, 07/ 23/ 96; Ord. No. 98- 9, Amended, 10/ 13/ 98)
Section 2. 32.030 Designated Employees
A. From time to time, and not later than July 1 of each even- numbered year in
accordance with Section 87306. 5 of the Political Reform Act of 1974, the City Council shall
direct the City Manager to review the Conflict of Interest Code and to submit any changes
required to the code in accordance with Sections 87302 and 87303 of the Act. Upon receiving
the results of such review, the City Council may adopt any changes required to the Conflict of
Interest Code by ordinance, or may establish or amend the listing of designated employees who
are subject to the requirements of this chapter by resolution, each approved in the manner
provided for under law. The persons holding the positions enumerated in the list of designated
employees adopted by resolution are " designated employees" within the meaning of the Conflict
of Interest Code adopted pursuant to this chapter, and shall file disclosure statements for each
of the disclosure categories as defined in Section 2. 32.040 below.
B. In addition to those persons holding the positions enumerated in the resolution
adopted by the City Council pursuant to Subdivision A of this section, every consultant
employed by the City, the Community Development Commission, the Vista Joint Powers
2. 32 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Financing Authority, the Industrial Development Authority, or any other City agency, is a
designated employee for purposes of this chapter and shall be required as a condition of
employment to file a financial disclosure statement under the broadest disclosure category,
except as follows: upon petition, the City Manager may determine in writing that the scope of
services to be provided by any consultant or the level of participation in any decision is
necessarily limited and that such consultant is not subject to the requirements of the City's
Conflict of Interest Code, or the disclosure category for such consultant shall be a narrower
category. The City Manager's written determination shall include a description of the
consultant's duties and, based upon that description, a statement of the basis for finding an
exemption or such narrower disclosure category. The written determination of the City Manager
is public record and shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk in the same manner as required
for financial disclosure statements.
Prior Code 2- 42; Ord. No. 89-47, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 94- 17, Amended, 08/ 09/ 94; Ord. No. 96- 14,
Amended, 07/ 23/ 96)
Section 2. 32.040 Disclosure Categories
As used in Section 2. 32. 020, disclosure categories are as follows:
Category 1: Investments and business positions in business entities and sources of
income.
Category 2: Interests in real property.
Category 3: Investments and business positions in business entities, interests in real
property, and sources of income subject to the regulatory, permit or licensing authority of the
department, board, commission, or City agency.
Category 4: Investments and business positions in business entities, and sources of
income which engage in land development, construction, acquisition or sale of real property.
Category 5: Investments and business positions in business entities, and sources of
income of the type which, within the past two years, have contracted with the designee
employee's department or board or commission, to provide services, supplies, materials,
machinery or equipment.
Category 6: Investments and business positions in business entities, and sources of
income of the type which, within the past two years, have contracted with the City, or a City
agency, to provide services, supplies, materials, machinery or equipment.
Prior Code 2- 43; Ord. No. 89- 47, Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 96- 14, Amended, 07/ 23/ 96)
Section 2. 32.050 Exemptions
A. Pursuant to Section 87100. 1 of the Political Reform Act of 1974, a registered
professional engineer or a licensed land surveyor who renders professional services as a
consultant, either directly or through a firm in which he or she is employed or is a principal, is
not required to file a financial disclosure statement under this chapter where the consultant
renders professional engineering or land surveying services independently of the control and
direction of the City and does not exercise public agency decision making authority as a
contract City Engineer or surveyor pursuant to Sections 6703 or 8703 of the Business and
Professions Code. However, this exemption shall not apply to that portion of the work
performed by any registered professional engineer or licensed land surveyor in connection with
any recommendation of the formula to spread costs of an assessment district if:
1. The engineer has received income of $ 250. 00 or more for such
professional services within 12 months prior to the creation of an assessment district; and
2. The district includes other parcels in addition to those parcels for which
the engineer received the income. The recommendation of the actual formula for spreading an
2. 32 ( 2) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
assessment does not include preliminary site studies, preliminary engineering plans,
specifications, estimates, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, or the collection
of data and information utilized in applying the formula.
B. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, designated youth
representatives appointed by the City Council to any City commission or committee shall be
exempt from any requirement for filing financial disclosure statements. In appointing youth
representatives to various City commissions, it is the express purpose and intent of the City
Council to provide opportunities for participation in local government and educational
experience for young people of the community. Such youth representatives shall not be
considered as designated employees for the purposes of the Political Reform Act of 1974, or of
this chapter.
Ord. No. 94- 17, Enacted, 08/ 09/ 94)
2. 32 ( 3) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.33
Good Government Requirements
Sections:
2. 33.010 Purpose and Intent
2. 33.020 Short Title
2. 33.030 Definitions
2. 33.040 Restrictions on Public Officials Accepting Gifts
2. 33.050 Prohibition on Presenting or Receiving Gifts from Parties Having an
Interest in Decisions or Actions of City of Vista
2. 33.060 Prohibition on Public Officials Receiving Honoraria
2. 33.070 Restrictions on Former Public Officials Accepting Employment
2. 33.080 Prohibition on Use of Position to Influence City Decisions
2. 33.090 Amendments
2. 33. 100 Rules of Construction; Severability
Section 2. 33.010 Purpose and Intent
The purpose of the provisions of this chapter are to assure ethical conduct by the
elected and appointed officials of the City, to promote fairness and equal treatment for all
persons by the City of Vista, regardless of wealth or economic status, and to prevent actual or
apparent corruption of the governmental process of the City through the influence of gifts,
contributions or payments of any kind. The intent of this chapter is to establish minimum
standards and requirements for ethical conduct by the City' s elected and appointed officials,
and to provide a means for the City to enforce such standards and requirements.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.020 Short Title
This chapter may be cited as the "Good Government Ordinance of the City of Vista."
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.030 Definitions
Except as otherwise set forth below, or elsewhere in this chapter, the words and terms
used in this chapter shall have the same meanings, and be defined as closely as possible with
reference to the City of Vista, as the meanings of such words and terms are given under the
Political Reform Act.
City" means the City of Vista, a municipal corporation organized and existing under
the general laws of the State of California, and also includes all other public entities of the City
in which the City Council of the City serves as governing board.
Council Member" means an individual who has been elected to the Office of Council
Member, or to the Office of Mayor, of the City of Vista.
Council Candidate" means an individual who has filed a declaration of candidacy for,
or a statement of organization as a committee for election to, the Office of Mayor, or Council
Member, whichever occurs first.
Appointed Official" means any appointed member of any City commission, board, or
committee, or any employee of the City who is a " designated employee" under the City' s
Conflict of Interest Code.
2. 33 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Conflict of Interest Code" means the Conflict of Interest Code of the City of Vista, as
amended, in Chapter 2. 32 of the Vista Municipal Code.
FPPC" means the California Fair Political Practices Commission, established pursuant
to the Political Reform Act.
Legislative or Administrative Action" shall mean any decision or action taken by the
City Council, or any City commission, board or committee, or any decision or action by an
appointed official.
Political Reform Act" shall mean the Political Reform Act of 1974, found in Title 9 of
the California Government Code, as amended, inclusive of all rules, regulations and
interpretations applicable to said Title 9, approved or adopted by the FPPC.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.040 Restrictions on Public Officials Accepting Gifts
A. It is prohibited and unlawful for any Council Member or any appointed official, to
accept gifts from any single source or person within any calendar year with a total aggregate
value of more than $ 300, or any individual gift with a total value of more than $ 100.
B. The limitations on the value of gifts imposed under Subdivision A of this section
shall be adjusted by the City Council to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index, rounded
to the nearest ten dollars, on or following January 1 of the year 2001 and on every oddnumbered
year thereafter, provided that such adjustments shall not exceed the limit on the
amount of gifts permitted under the Political Reform Act.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.050 Prohibition on Presenting or Receiving Gifts from Parties Having an
Interest in Decisions or Actions of City
A. It is prohibited and unlawful for any person to present to any Council Member or
to any appointed official, and it is also prohibited and unlawful for any Council Member or
appointed official to receive from any such person, any gift having a value of more than $ 50, if
the donor or presenter of the gift has any economic or financial interest in any of the following:
1. A contract or agreement, including any purchase order, franchise, or
license, to provide goods, materials, equipment, or services to or for the City, or affecting any
property of the City, while the offer of such contract or agreement is pending before the City, or
while such contract or agreement remains in effect;
2. Any real property, including improvements, that is the subject of an
application for any land use approval, including any zoning change, use permit, variance, or
other entitlement, after such application has been submitted and while such application remains
pending before the City;
3. Any lease, purchase or sale agreement affecting real property, to or from
the City, that has been presented to the City, or which is pending, or which remains in effect; or
4. Any request or appeal to reduce any tax, assessment, charge, or fee
made to the City, while such request or appeal is pending.
B. If a Council Member or appointed official receives a gift without knowing that the
gift was presented in violation of Subdivision A of this section, the Council Member or appointed
official shall not be in violation of Subdivision A of this section if, within five days of having
discovered that the gift was received in violation of this section, the Council Member or
appointed official: ( 1) files a written report with the City Clerk that such gift was received, and
2) relinquishes such gift, or pays the equivalent fair value, to the City for appropriate disposition
or deposit to the City' s General Fund. The report filed with the City Clerk shall identify the
name and address of each person presenting the gift, the circumstances in which the gift was
2. 33 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
presented, a full description of the gift, and its actual or estimated fair value, including copies of
any available evidence of such value.
C. A Council Member or appointed official shall disclose in writing to the City Clerk,
on a form substantially the same as that required for filing a Statement of Economic Interests
required under the Political Reform Act, any gift or gifts received from any person described in
Subdivision A, above, if the fair value of the gift is $ 25 or more. Such disclosure shall be filed
no later than the seventh day of the month following the calendar month in which the gift was
received.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.060 Prohibition on Public Officials Receiving Honoraria
A. No Council Member and no Council candidate shall accept any honorarium.
B. No appointed official shall accept an honorarium from any source if the
appointed official would be required to report the receipt of income or gifts from that source on
his or her statement of economic interests.
C. The provisions of Section 89506 of the Political Reform Act, as amended, shall
apply to the application of this chapter, and to all payments, advances or reimbursements for
travel and related lodging and subsistence.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.070 Restrictions on Former Public Officials Accepting Employment
A. Former Council Members. For a period of one year after leaving office, no
Council Member shall, for compensation, act as agent or attorney for, or otherwise represent,
any other person by making any formal or informal appearance, or by making any oral or written
communication, before the City Council or any board, commission, committee or subcommittee
of the City, or any officer or employee of the City, if the appearance or communication is made
for the purpose of influencing any decision of the City Council or any administrative action of the
City. For purposes of this section, an administrative action of the City shall include the
issuance, amendment, award or revocation of a permit, license, grant, or contract, or the sale or
purchase of goods or services, or sale or leasing of any interest in real property.
B. Former Appointed Officials. For a period of one year after leaving office or
employment, no appointed official shall, for compensation, act as agent or attorney for, or
otherwise represent, any other person, by making any formal or informal appearance, or by
making any oral or written communication, before the City Council or any board, commission,
committee or subcommittee of the City, or any officer or employee of the City for which the
appointed official had worked, represented, appeared before, or was a member of, during the
12 months before leaving office or employment, if the appearance or communication is made
for the purpose of influencing any decision of the City Council, or any administrative action, as
defined in Subdivision A of the section.
C. Exceptions. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to any individual who
is or becomes a member or representative of another City board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, or an employee of the City assigned to a different department, if the
communication or appearance is for the purpose of influencing a decision of the City Council or
an administrative action, on behalf of the City board, commission, committee, subcommittee, or
department.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
2. 33 ( 3) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 33.080 Prohibition on Use of Position to Influence City Decisions
No Council Member or appointed official shall make, participate in making, or use his or
her official position to influence, any governmental decision directly relating to any person with
whom he or she is negotiating, or has any arrangement concerning a current, future, or
prospective employment.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33.090 Amendments
The provisions of this chapter may be repealed only by approval of the voters of the City
at an election. The provisions of this chapter may be amended upon adoption of an ordinance
by the City Council only for the purpose of conforming any of the provisions of this chapter with
State Law or with the Political Reform Act, repairing any constitutional infirmity, or adopting
additional standards and regulations for ethical conduct of City elected and appointed officials,
consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 33. 100 Rules of Construction; Severability
The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted in the broadest possible manner,
consistent with the Constitutions of the United States and the State of California and with
existing laws and statutes, in particular the provisions of the Political Reform Act, as amended,
to accomplish the purposes and intent of this chapter.
If any portion or provision of this chapter is found by any court for any reason to be
invalid, then all remaining portions and provisions of this chapter that are not found to be invalid
shall remain in full force and effect, and the remaining portions and provisions shall be
interpreted as if this chapter were enacted originally without including the invalid portions or
provisions.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
2. 33 ( 4) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.34
Fair Elections and Campaign Financing
Sections:
2. 34.010 Purpose and Intent
2. 34.020 Short Title
2. 34.030 Definitions
2. 34.040 Application
2. 34.050 Rules of Construction; Severability
2. 34.060 Limits and Prohibitions on Campaign Contributions
2. 34.070 Limits and Disclosure of Loans to Candidates and Committees
2. 34.080 Organization of Committees; Campaign Statements
2. 34.090 Campaign Statements - Supplemental Filing Requirements and Schedule
2. 34. 100 Election Campaign Accounts
2. 34. 110 Petty Cash Disbursements
2. 34. 120 Additional Required Records
2. 34. 130 Return of Prohibited Contributions
2. 34. 140 Independent Campaign Expenditures Disclosure
2. 34. 150 Enforcement; Complaints; Investigations and Legal Actions; Compliance
2. 34. 160 Penalties
2. 34. 170 Amendments
Section 2. 34.010 Purpose and Intent
The people of the City of Vista expect and are entitled to receive honest and fair
representation from their elected representatives and the opportunity to elect City officials free
from undue influence by special interest groups and campaign contributors.
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent actual or potential corruption in City
government by placing realistic and enforceable limits on campaign contributions to candidates
for election to the offices of Mayor or City Council Member; and by requiring candidates for such
offices to disclose the sources of their campaign funding.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.020 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the " Fair Elections and Campaign Financing" ordinance.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.030 Definitions
Except as otherwise set forth below, or elsewhere in this chapter, the words and terms
used in this chapter shall have the same meanings, and be defined as closely as possible with
respect to the City of Vista, as the meanings of such words and terms are given under the
Political Reform Act.
Anonymous Contribution" means any campaign contribution to a candidate or
committee for purposes of supporting or opposing the election of a candidate to any City Office
for which either the contributor is unknown to the candidate or committee, or who refuses to be
identified.
2. 34 ( l) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
City" means the City of Vista, a municipal corporation organized and existing under the
general laws of the State of California, and also includes all other public entities of the City in
which the City Council of the City serves as governing board.
City Office" means the offices of Mayor or Council Member of the City of Vista.
Committee" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section
82013, but only with respect to the purpose of supporting or opposing the election of any
candidate for City Office, except that the dollar limits expressed in Section 82013 are reduced to
300 or more.
Contribution" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Government Code Section
82015(f), but with respect to an election for City Office, except that the exclusion set forth in
Section 82015(f) for costs of a meeting or fund- raising event in the home or office of the
occupant shall be reduced to $ 150 or less.
Controlled Committee" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Government
Code Section 82016, but with respect to a committee organized for the purpose of supporting
any candidate for election to a City Office.
Council Member" means an individual who has been elected either to the Office of
Council Member or to the Office of Mayor of the City of Vista.
Candidate" means an individual who has filed either a declaration of candidacy for, or
a statement of organization as a committee for, election or re- election to a City Office.
Election" means any election held for the purpose of filling a vacancy in the Office of
Mayor or Council Member of the City of Vista.
FPPC" means the California Fair Political Practices Commission, established pursuant
to the Political Reform Act.
Independent Committee" means a committee that is neither controlled by a
candidate, nor which coordinates its expenditures with the expenditures of any candidate or a
candidate' s controlled committee, and which receives contributions or makes expenditures for
the purpose of supporting or opposing any candidate for City Office.
Individual" means a single human being.
Maximum Allowed Contribution" shall mean the value of the aggregate limit of gifts
that may be received from any individual source or person under Subdivision A of Section
2. 33.040 of this Title 2, as that value may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to Subdivision
B of Section 2. 33.040. As of the effective date of this section, the maximum allowed
contribution is $ 300.
Person" means any individual, proprietorship, firm, partnership, joint venture,
syndicate, business trust, limited liability company, corporation, association, committee, and any
other organization or group of persons acting in concert.
Political Reform Act" shall mean the Political Reform Act of 1974, found in Title 9 of
the California Government Code, as amended, inclusive of all rules, regulations and
interpretations applicable to said Title 9, approved or adopted by the FPPC.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.040 Application
The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to campaigns for or against the election of
any candidate to a City Office, and shall not apply to elections concerning any measure,
initiative, referendum, or recall.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
2. 34 ( 2) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 34.050 Rules of Construction; Severability
The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted in the broadest possible manner,
consistent with the Constitutions of the United States and the State of California and with
existing laws and statutes, in particular the provisions of the Political Reform Act, as amended,
to accomplish the purposes and intent of this chapter.
If any part of this chapter is found by any court for any reason to be invalid, then all
remaining parts of this chapter that are not found to be invalid shall remain in full force and
effect, and the remaining parts shall be interpreted as if this chapter were enacted originally
without including invalid parts.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.060 Limits and Prohibitions on Campaign Contributions
A. Limits on Campaign Contributions to Candidates and Controlled Committees. No
person, other than the candidate, shall make, nor shall a campaign treasurer solicit or accept
from any person, any contribution which will cause the total amount contributed by that person
to the election campaign of any candidate for City Office to exceed the maximum allowed
contribution in any election. This campaign contribution limit shall apply to the total of all
contributions made by any person other than the candidate, collectively to the candidate and to
any of the candidate' s controlled committees, except for any controlled committees organized
solely for the purpose of campaigning for or against any measure, initiative, referendum or
recall.
B. Limits on Anonymous Campaign Contributions. No candidate or committee shall
accept anonymous contributions in a total aggregate amount exceeding the maximum allowed
contribution for any single election. Nor shall any candidate or committee expend or use
anonymous contributions received in a total aggregate amount exceeding the maximum allowed
contribution. To the extent that the aggregate total amount of anonymous contributions
received by any candidate or controlled committee for any election exceeds the maximum
allowed contribution, the excess amount shall be paid promptly, from available campaign funds,
if any, to the City Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund of the City, unless required by law to
be paid to the Secretary of State.
C. Prohibition of" Laundered" Campaign Contributions. No candidate, committee, or
campaign treasurer shall accept any campaign contribution made directly or indirectly, by any
person in a name other than the name by which the contributor is known and identified for legal
purposes, or in the name of any different person, or combination of persons, other than the
name of the actual contributor. No person shall, in his, her or its own name, make a contribution
of any thing of value belonging to another person, or that was received from another person on
the condition that it be used as a campaign contribution. Such practices are commonly known
as " laundering" campaign contributions. Upon discovery by any candidate, committee, or
campaign treasurer of the receipt of any such " laundered" campaign contributions in violation of
this subdivision, the candidate, committee or campaign treasurer shall promptly pay to the City
Treasurer for deposit to the City's General Fund, from any of the candidate' s or committee's
available campaign funds, the amount of such " laundered" campaign contributions received in
violation of this subdivision.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.070 Limits and Disclosure of Loans to Candidates and Committees
A. Limits on Amount of Loans to Candidates and Committees. Subject to the
exceptions listed below, a candidate or a committee shall not obtain a loan in excess of the
2. 34 ( 3) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
monetary limits set forth in Subdivision A of Section 2. 34.060 from any person, for the purpose
of supporting or opposing a candidate for election to any City Office. The limitation on the
amount of a campaign loan shall not apply to any loan by a candidate made for the sole
purpose of financing the candidate' s own campaign for election to City Office.
B. Disclosure of Permitted Loans. If a candidate or committee obtains a loan in
compliance with Subdivision A above, the candidate or committee shall comply with all of the
following requirements:
1. The loan shall be evidenced by a written agreement which sets forth the
lender, loan amount, funding source if different from the lender, interest rate, repayment terms,
collateral pledged, and records of all repayments made on the loan, including legible
photocopies of any canceled checks, and any other terms or conditions of the loan.
2. The candidate or committee shall file a copy of the written agreement
required under Subparagraph 1 above with the City Clerk within five calendar days of the
execution of the written agreement or the receipt of the loan proceeds, whichever occurs first.
3. The candidate or treasurer of the committee receiving the loan shall
execute and deliver a promissory note for the amount borrowed, and the note shall include a
specific repayment schedule, shall set forth all other terms and conditions of the loan, including
the interest rate, and the terms and conditions of the loan shall not be substantially or materially
different from the terms and conditions of commercial loans generally made available to the
general public.
4. A loan shall not be secured by any assets, other than personal assets of
the candidate, or joint or community property assets of the candidate and the candidate's
spouse, except that other persons may pledge assets for the repayment of the loan in amounts
not exceeding the campaign contribution limits imposed under Subdivision A of Section
2. 34.060, and any such pledge shall be deemed a campaign contribution for purposes of this
chapter.
5. The candidate or committee shall maintain copies of all loan documents
and make legible copies available for inspections in the manner provided in Section 2. 34. 110.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.080 Organization of Committees; Campaign Statements
Any committee that either receives or expends an amount greater than the maximum
allowed contribution in support of or opposition to any candidate for City Office shall file with the
City Clerk a statement of organization in substantially the same form required by the Political
Reform Act for such purposes not later than ten days following the opening of the election
campaign account. The committee shall identify whether it is a controlled committee or an
independent committee.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.090 Campaign Statements-Supplemental Filing Requirements and
Schedule
A. Supplemental Filing Requirement. In addition to the requirements for filing
campaign statements imposed by the Political Reform Act, every candidate for election, and
every committee supporting or opposing a candidate for election, as defined in Section 2. 34. 030
of this chapter, shall file campaign disclosure statements with the City Clerk, in substantially the
same form as required by Section 84211 ( Campaign Disclosure Statement) whenever campaign
contributions received, or campaign expenditures of$ 300 or more, are received or expended.
B. Supplemental Filing Schedule. In addition to the requirements for filing campaign
statements imposed by the Political Reform Act, every candidate for election, and every
2. 34 ( 4) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
committee, shall file pre- election campaign statements with the City Clerk on the 20th and 6th
days prior to the election date.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.100 Election Campaign Accounts
A. Election Campaign Account Required. Every candidate and every committee
receiving contributions in an amount equal to or greater than the maximum allowed contribution
in support of or opposition to the election of any candidate for City Office shall establish a single
election campaign account for the election campaign with a bank or other financial institution
providing checking account services and having an office located in the City of Vista.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a candidate and the candidate's controlled committee
formed solely for the purpose of supporting that candidate for election to any City Office may
establish and maintain a single joint checking account for both the candidate and the committee.
Within 24 hours after opening an election campaign account, the candidate or the treasurer of
the committee shall file with the City Clerk, in writing or on forms provided by the City Clerk, the
name of the bank or financial institution and the number of the election campaign account.
B. Deposit of Campaign Contributions. Upon opening an election campaign
account, all contributions accepted by a candidate, committee, or campaign treasurer shall be
deposited by the candidate, committee or campaign treasurer in the candidate's or committee's
election campaign account within five business days. No contribution shall be deposited to an
election campaign account without the candidate or committee treasurer having received, with
respect to that contribution, all of the information identified under Government Code Section
84211 pertaining to campaign contributions. Any contribution not deposited within five business
days shall be returned to the contributor as soon as possible after the fifth business day, but no
later then ten business days after receipt of the contribution.
C. Election Campaign Expenditures. Every election campaign expenditure made
following the opening of an election campaign account shall be made only upon a check drawn
on the election campaign account and signed by the candidate or campaign treasurer, or an
authorized agent of the candidate or campaign treasurer. For purposes of this section, an
expenditure shall be deemed made by a check drawn against the election campaign account if:
1) the maker of the expenditure is reimbursed by a check drawn on the account, and ( 2) the
expenditure is reported as a campaign expenditure within the time required for filing of
campaign statements. Each candidate, campaign treasurer, or committee shall maintain a
written record of the payee of each check drawn on a campaign contribution checking account
and an itemized record of the goods or services for which each check is issued. Funds held in
the election campaign account shall be deemed to be held in trust, and shall not be considered
for any purposes to be the personal funds of a candidate, campaign treasurer, committee, or
other person.
D. City Clerk's Access to Records. The City Clerk shall have full access during
normal business hours to the bank' s or financial institution' s records concerning any election
campaign account established pursuant to this chapter.
E. Retention of Records. The candidate, committee, or authorized agent, shall
retain, for a minimum period of four years following the election, all records of campaign
contributions received and expenditures made in connection with campaigns in support of or
opposition to candidates for election to any City Office.
F. Segregation of Funds and Records by Committees. Each committee required by
this chapter to open an election campaign account, and which also engages in campaign
activity in elections other than the election of City Officers, shall physically segregate the funds
2. 34 ( 5) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
received from, and shall maintain separate records of, all contributions and campaign
expenditures received or made in connection with the campaign for or against the election of
any candidate for City Office.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.110 Petty Cash Disbursements
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2. 34.090, the candidate or campaign treasurer
or other designated agents authorized to issue checks on an election campaign account may
disburse to the candidate or committee establishing the checking account an amount not
greater than $ 20 per week to be used for petty cash purposes by the candidate or committee.
An amount not greater than $ 40 per week may be disbursed to a candidate and committee
jointly establishing an election campaign account to be used for petty cash purposes.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.120 Additional Required Records
A. Records Required to be Maintained. In addition to any other requirements for
keeping of campaign records by candidates or committees, every candidate and committee
establishing an election campaign account pursuant to this chapter shall maintain records, for a
minimum period of four years from the date of the election, of all of the following:
1. Any contribution offered to and refused in whole or part by the candidate
or committee;
2. Any contribution received by the candidate or committee and returned in
whole or in part to the contributor;
3. Any contribution received by the candidate or committee and deposited in
whole or in part into the election campaign account; and
4. Any disbursements made from the election campaign account.
B. Contents of Records. The records required to be maintained by Subdivision A
above shall include, without limitation, all of the following information:
1. The name and address of each contributor;
2. The amount of each contribution, and the date on which it was received
or offered;
3. A legible photocopy of the check for every contribution made by check;
4. A legible copy of the bank deposit slip depositing the contribution into the
election campaign account for every contribution made in cash;
5. Legible photocopies of the originals of all bank records of the election
campaign account;
6. A statement disclosing the source of funds for every contribution made by
the candidate for personal funds;
7. For every non- monetary contribution, a description of the thing or services
contributed and a reasonable good- faith estimate of the value of the contribution; and
8. For each disbursement by check made from an election campaign
account, the canceled check, or a legible photocopy, the bank statement showing the
disbursement, the name of the payee, a record of the goods and services for which the
disbursement was made, and a legible photocopy or original of the invoice, statement or bill
received from the payee.
C. Presentation of Records for Inspection. Each candidate or committee shall
deliver to, or make available upon demand by, any public officer having authority to enforce this
chapter: ( 1) a written authorization permitting the officer to have access to all records pertaining
2. 34 ( 6) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
to an election campaign account; and ( 2) all records required by this chapter to be maintained
by the candidate or committee.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.130 Return of Prohibited Contributions
A. Rejection of Any Offer. Any campaign contribution offered to a candidate or
committee in violation of this chapter shall be rejected by the candidate or committee to whom it
is offered.
B. Return of Contributions Received. If a candidate, committee or campaign
treasurer discovers after having received a campaign contribution that the contribution is in
violation of this chapter, the candidate, committee or campaign treasurer shall not be in violation
of this chapter if the candidate, committee or campaign treasurer: (1) does not deposit the
contribution into the election campaign account; and ( 2) returns the contribution within five
calendar days of the date the contribution was received.
C. Reporting Contributions Deposited to Election Campaign Account. If a
candidate, committee or campaign treasurer discovers that a contribution has been received
and deposited into the election campaign account, in violation of any provision of this chapter,
the candidate, committee or campaign treasurer shall not be in violation of this chapter if the
candidate, committee or campaign treasurer complies with both conditions ( 1) and ( 2) below:
1. The candidate, committee or campaign treasurer discovering the violation
files a written statement of the violation with the City Clerk within five calendar days of having
discovered the violation. The written statement shall include all pertinent facts known about the
contribution, along with the following information:
a. If the contribution was made by check, draft, or other instrument, a
legible copy of the check, draft or instrument by which the contribution was made;
b. If made in cash, the amount of contribution and a legible
photocopy of the bank deposit slip by which the contribution was deposited to the election
campaign account;
C. If made by wire or electronic transfer, a photocopy of the record of
the transfer; and
d. The method by which the contribution was delivered to the
candidate, committee or campaign treasurer ( e. g. by personal delivery, U. S. Postal System
delivery, private courier or messenger, etc.). If delivered in person by the contributor or
contributor' s agent, the statement shall include the name, address and phone number of the
contributor or agent.
2. The written statement to the City Clerk shall be accompanied by a check
drawn on the election campaign account in an amount equal to the amount of the contribution
deposited in violation of this chapter, and the amount shall be donated to the General Fund of
the City.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.140 Independent Campaign Expenditures Disclosure
If an independent person or organization makes expenditures supporting or opposing
any candidate for election to City Office, and if such expenditures, or any portion of them, would
otherwise be subject to the provisions of this chapter if made by a candidate or committee, the
independent person or organization shall indicate legibly, clearly and prominently on the face of
all campaign material published or displayed, or at the beginning and end of any campaign
broadcast, that the material has not been paid for or authorized by any candidate or committee.
For purposes of this section an " independent person or organization" means any person, group
2. 34 ( 7) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
or association, or any combination thereof, not subject to the control of a candidate or
committee.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.150 Enforcement; Complaints; Investigations and Legal Actions;
Compliance
A. Enforcement. The Enforcement Authority shall enforce the provisions of this
ordinance. For purposes of this chapter, the Enforcement Authority shall be the City Attorney,
or any person designated by the City Council to act as the Enforcement Authority.
B. Complaints. Any person who has reason to believe that a violation of any
provision of this chapter has occurred may file a written statement of such belief with the
Enforcement Authority. Upon a determination by the Enforcement Authority that there exist
sufficient grounds to support a reasonable belief that a violation of this chapter has occurred,
the Enforcement Authority shall make an investigation. If the Enforcement Authority has reason
to believe that a willful violation of this chapter has occurred, or is about to occur, the
Enforcement Authority may institute legal action to prevent further violations.
C. Investigation and Legal Action. The Enforcement Authority shall have such
powers and authorities as may be necessary and proper to perform investigations authorized
under this chapter, and may demand and be furnished with records of campaign contributions
and expenses from candidates, committees or campaign treasurers at any time. The
Enforcement Authority shall have the power and authority to bring any legal action deemed
necessary and appropriate, whether criminal or civil in nature, to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
D. Determining Compliance. The Enforcement Authority shall determine whether
required statements and declarations have been filed as required by this chapter and, if so,
whether they conform with the requirements of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.160 Penalties
A. Misdemeanor. Any person who has violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
or any person who has counseled, aided, abetted, advised, or participated in any violation of
this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to the penalties set forth in Section 1. 16. 010. D
of this Municipal Code.
B. Forfeiture. In addition to any other penalty under this Municipal Code, any
person having been convicted of violating Section 2. 34.060 of this chapter shall be required to
forfeit the amount received in violation of such section and to pay over that amount to the City
Treasurer for deposit to the General Fund of the City.
C. Tolling of Statutes of Limitations. Any limitation of time prescribed by law within
which prosecution of a violation of this chapter must commence shall begin to run upon the date
of discovery of the violation.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
Section 2. 34.170 Amendments
The provisions of this chapter may be repealed only by approval of the voters of the City
at an election. The provisions of this chapter may be amended upon adoption of an ordinance
by the City Council only for the purpose of conforming any of the provisions of this chapter with
2. 34 ( 8) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
State law or with the Political Reform Act, repairing any constitutional infirmity, or adopting
additional standards and regulations for fair elections and campaign financing of candidates to
City Offices, consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2000- 9, Added, 11/ 7/ 2000 Election)
2. 34 ( 9) Vista 3/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.36
Fire Department
Sections:
2. 36.010 Established - Composition
2. 36.020 Powers and Duties
2. 36.030 Members Subject to City Employee Rules
2. 36.040 Rules and Regulations
Section 2. 36.010 Established - Composition
There is established in the City a Fire Department, the purpose of which shall be the
prevention and supervision of fires and protection of life and property, to consist of a Fire Chief
and as many officers and firemen as may be deemed necessary by the City Manager from time
to time, for the effective operation of the Fire Department.
Prior Code 11- 11; Ord. No. 64. 29, Added 7/ 14/ 64)
Section 2. 36.020 Powers and Duties
The Fire Department shall prevent and suppress the fires and shall provide protection of
life and property within the Vista Fire Protection District in accordance with that certain joint
powers agreement executed between the City and the Vista Fire Protection District.
Prior Code 11- 12; Ord. No. 64. 29, Added 7/ 14/ 64)
Section 2. 36.030 Members Subject to City Employee Rules
All employees of the Fire Department, including the Fire Chief, are employees of the City
and shall be subject to the salary schedule and the rules and regulations governing the
employees of the City.
Prior Code 11- 13; Ord. No. 64. 29, Added 7/ 14/ 64)
Section 2. 36.040 Rules and Regulations
All regular members and all subordinate firefighters of the Fire Department shall be
subject to and shall obey the orders and directions of the Fire Chief and shall obey all rules and
regulations for the Fire Department as may, from time to time, be prescribed by the City
Manager.
Prior Code 11- 14; Ord. No. 64. 29, Added 7/ 14/ 64; Ord. No. 93- 14, Amended, 05/ 25/ 93)
2. 36 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.40
Department of Recreation and Community Services
Sections:
2. 40.010 Established
2. 40.020 Powers and Duties
2. 40.030 Director - Appointment
2. 40.040 Director - Powers and Duties
2. 40.050 Annual Budget - Fund Established
2. 40.060 Recreational Facilities - Conduct of Activities and Events
2. 40.070 Recreational Facilities - Hours, Fees and Regulations
2. 40.080 Armory and Adjacent Areas
2. 40.090 Construction and Use of Structures
Section 2.40.010 Established
The Department of Recreation and Community Services is established for the City.
Prior Code 20- 1; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.020 Powers and Duties
The functions of the Department of Recreation and Community Services are to provide
opportunities for wholesome, year- round public recreation service for each age group and to
develop and maintain, in an attractive and safe manner, the parks and recreation areas and
facilities of the City, and to ensure that such facilities are suitable for a wide variety of recreation
purposes.
Prior Code 20- 2; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.030 Director - Appointment
The City Manager shall appoint a Director of Recreation and Community Services to
administer the parks and recreation program.
Prior Code 20- 3; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.040 Director - Powers and Duties
A. The Director of Recreation and Community Services shall attend meetings of the
Parks and Recreation Commission, may serve as secretary to the commission and shall make
such reports to the commission or to the City Council or board of trustees of the school district
as shall be required.
B. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall:
1. Inform the general public of the services and facilities being provided by
the Parks and Recreation Department.
2. Solicit suggestions from the general public to improve or increase the
effectiveness of the service.
3. Cooperate with government and voluntary organizations and agencies in
the furtherance of recreation opportunities.
4. Provide, upon request, assistance of a technical nature to community
agencies and organizations having problems relating to parks and recreation areas and
2. 40 ( l) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
facilities and programs.
5. Counsel with officials of public and private organizations and interested
groups concerning community's recreation and leisure activities and assist them in the
promotion of recreation services.
6. Conduct studies of local conditions and needs for recreation services and
assist with recruitment and training of recreation personnel.
7. Prepare, in cooperation with the Parks and Recreation Commission, a
budget to be presented to the City Manager.
Prior Code 20- 4; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.050 Annual Budget - Fund Established
There is established a Parks and Recreation Fund. The Director of Recreation and
Community Services shall submit annually a budget to the Parks and Recreation Commission
and City Manager for their consideration. Such budget should provide not only for recreation
services, park maintenance and operating costs for the ensuing year, but should also contain
estimates and recommendations for such long-term capital outlay as may be necessary to
provide for an orderly and coordinated development program.
Prior Code 20- 5; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.060 Recreational Facilities - Conduct of Activities and Events
A. The Director of Recreation and Community Services shall have authority to
promote the use of City-owned playgrounds, parks and recreation areas for the benefit of the
people of the City by organizing, carrying on, conducting and maintaining regularly scheduled
and planned athletic contests and games under the supervision of the Director of Recreation
and Community Services, under rules and regulations to be adopted by the Director of
Recreation and Community Services.
B. Preference in the use of such playgrounds and recreation areas, and the holding
of such athletic games and events, shall be given to the residents of the City; provided, that the
Director of Recreation and Community Services may, if deemed to be in the best interests of
the promotion of such playground and recreational activity, authorize contests between
organized athletic teams coming from areas outside of the territorial boundaries of the City, and
may also, if deemed advisable, permit organized teams resident outside of the City to compete
in regularly scheduled contests with teams composed of members resident within the City.
Prior Code 20- 6; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.070 Recreational Facilities - Hours, Fees and Regulations
A. The Director of Recreation and Community Services, by and with the approval of
the City Manager and Parks and Recreation Commission, is authorized and empowered to
regulate the times of opening and closing of all City parks and recreation facilities of the City, to
make assignments of persons and groups to particular facilities or portions thereof, and to
prescribe fees and make charges in connection with the above.
B. Further, the Director of Recreation and Community Services is authorized and
empowered to formulate and adopt rules and regulations in connection herewith.
Prior Code 20- 8; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.080 Armory and Adjacent Areas
A. Under no circumstances shall any person, group, company, society or
2. 40 ( 2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
organization under supervision of the City parks and recreation program negotiate directly for
activities with the custodian or representative of the California National Guard.
B. The Director of Recreation and Community Services shall be directly responsible
for establishment of schedules and personal supervision of City recreation and athletic activities
carried on within the confines of the armory or the area adjacent thereto being under the control
of the California National Guard.
Prior Code 20- 7; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
Section 2.40.090 Construction and Use of Structures
The Department of Recreation and Community Services is authorized and empowered
to permit the erection or construction by noncommercial societies, groups or organizations
which are engaged in civic, social, educational, recreational or philanthropic work and activities,
of headquarters, buildings and facilities upon such sites, in accordance with plans to be first
approved by the Parks and Recreation Commission and City Council, and to grant preferential,
but not exclusive right or privileges of occupancy and use in connection therewith; and to make
and enforce uniform and proper rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this
chapter for the use, occupancy, maintenance and care of such site, buildings, structures and
facilities; provided, that the title to any building, structure or facility so permitted to be erected or
built, shall, upon completion thereof, immediately vest in the City, and shall become and remain
in every respect subject to the jurisdiction, control and regulation of the Department of
Recreation and Community Services. No such society, group or organization shall be granted
or be permitted to acquire any exclusive or irrevocable right use or occupy a particular portion
of such area or building, structure or facility that may be erected thereon.
Prior Code 20- 9; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71)
2. 40 ( 3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.44
Parks and Recreation Commission
Sections:
2.44.010 Purpose
2.44.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
2.44.060 Powers and Duties
Section 2.44.010 Purpose
The purpose of this commission is to advise the City Council, City Manager, and the
Department of Recreation and Community Services on matters concerning parks and
recreation.
Prior Code 20- 16; Ord. No. 70-40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. No. 85- 10, Amended 3/ 12/ 85; Ord. No. 87- 2,
Amended 1/ 26/ 87; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 9, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No.
2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2.44.020 Establishment, composition, and Additional Qualifications
There is hereby established the Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Vista,
which is an advisory commission to the City Council. The Parks and Recreation Commission
shall be composed of seven regular members and two non- voting youth members.
In addition to the general qualifications for appointments in Chapter 2. 18 of the Vista
Municipal Code, qualifications for appointments to the Parks and Recreation Commission shall
include the following:
A. Regular Members. Regular members of the Commission may not be employed
by the City in any capacity. It is the intent of the City Council that at least one member of the
Commission be a member who has been recommended for appointment by the Board of
Trustees of the Vista Unified School District.
B. Ex- Officio Members. Two ex-officio members of the Commission shall be youth
representatives who shall be appointed by the Mayor with confirmation by the City Council.
Prior Code 20- 17; Ord. No. 70-40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. No. 74-47, Amended 8/ 26/ 74; Ord. No. 75- 1,
Amended 1/ 21/ 75; Ord. No. 85- 10, Amended 3/ 12/ 85; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No.
2005- 20, Amended, 09/ 13/ 05; Ord. No. 2013- 9, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2.44.030 Term of Office - Youth Representative - Vacancy Filling
Prior Code 20- 18; Ord. 70-40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. 74-47, Amended 8/ 27/74; Ord. No. 77- 4,
Amended 2/ 14/ 77; Ord. 86- 51, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2005- 20, Amended, 09/ 13/ 05; Ord. No.
2013- 9, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2.44.040 Organization - Election of Officers
Prior Code 20- 19; Ord. No. 70-40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. No. 2013- 9, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC
Chapter 2. 18
2. 44 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2.44.050 Meetings Attendance - Rules and Regulations
Prior Code 20- 20; Ord. No. 70- 40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. No. 86- 52, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No.
2013- 9, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2.44.060 Powers and Duties
The duties of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall be as follows:
A. To act in an advisory capacity to the City Council, City Manager and the Director
of Recreation and Community Services in matters concerning parks and recreation planning
and programming.
B. Advise the Director of Recreation and Community Services in formulating policies
on recreation services for approval by the City Council;
C. Recommend to the City Council and Vista Unified School District Board the best
joint use of recreation facilities.
D. Recommend to the City Council the advisability of acquiring and/ or utilizing
various parcels of land for parks and recreation purposes.
E. Advise the Director of Recreation and Community Services on development of
recreation areas, facilities, programs and recreation services.
F. Review staff recommendations for the adoption of standards on organization,
personnel, areas and facilities, program and financial support of parks and recreation activities.
G. Make periodic inventories of recreation services that exist or may be needed and
make recommendations to the City Council and the Director of Recreation and Community
Services.
H. Review staff recommendations for the annual budget request and on long- range
parks and recreation capital improvement program.
I. Consider all requests for permanent facilities to be erected on park area.
J. Promote and stimulate public interest in the Department of Recreation and
Community Services.
K. Promote recreation and community services.
Prior Code 20- 21; Ord. No. 70- 40, Amended 11/ 2/ 70; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
2. 44 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.46
Public Arts Commission
Sections:
2. 46.010 Purpose
2. 46.020 Establishment and Composition
2. 46.070 Powers and Duties
2. 46.080 Staff Assistance
Section 2.46.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and support the public display and public
appreciation of art through the establishment and operation of the Public Arts Commission of
the City of Vista. The Commission' s purpose is to reflect the diverse nature of the City' s
population, history, and growth through the public display of art; cultivate audiences for public
art; consider ways in which public art can play a role in achieving other community building
goals and objectives; foster sponsorship and stewardship of public art; recognition of the
economic benefits gained through aesthetic enhancement of the City' s public spaces; and
expand the opportunities for residents to experience public art.
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2.46.020 Establishment and Composition
There is established a Public Arts Commission with membership, powers and duties as
provided in this article.
The Public Arts Commission of the City of Vista shall be a standing commission of the
City consisting of seven members. The seven members shall include one member
recommended for appointment by the Vista Unified School District. There shall be two nonvoting
youth representatives.
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2017- 18, Amended
11/ 14/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 15, Amended 11/ 12/ 19)
Section 2.46.030 Members and Appointment
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18.
Section 2.46.040 Term of Office
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18.
Section 2.46.050 Organization - Election of Officers
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18.
Section 2.46.060 Meetings - Rules and Regulations
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18.
2. 46 ( l) Vista 12/ 13/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2.46.070 Powers and Duties
The duties of the Public Arts Commission shall be as follows:
A. To act in an advisory capacity to the City Council and City Manager in all matters
concerning public visual arts.
B. To facilitate communication and cooperation among local visual arts groups.
C. To take action on items that do not require City Council approval and provide
recommendations to the City Council regarding the public display of visual art in accordance
with City Council adopted policies or resolutions.
D. To develop and maintain a public visual arts plan for presentation to and
approval by the City Council.
F. To explore and suggest outside funding sources for public visual arts.
G. To advise staff on how to expand and enhance visual arts education in the
community.
H. To promote and stimulate public interest in visual arts.
I. To perform such additional functions relating to public art as may be delegated to
the Commission pursuant to a policy or resolution adopted by the City Council.
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19 )
Section 2.46.080 Staff Assistance
Ord. No. 2003- 16, Added, 06/ 10/ 03; Ord. No. 2013- 10, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18.
2. 46 ( 2) Vista 12/ 13/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.48
Planning Commission
Sections:
2. 48.010 Purpose
2. 48.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
2. 48.040 Term of Office - Removal Conditions
2. 48.050 Compensation of Members
2. 48.060 Secretary
2. 48.080 Powers and Duties
Section 2.48.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Planning Commission is to recommend to the City Council plans for
the regulation of the future growth, development and beautification of the City and to hear and
take action on certain applications for subdivisions of land, site development plans, special use
permits, or variances.
Prior Code 2- 27; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 2013- 11, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2.48.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
A Planning Commission of the City is established, with membership, powers and duties
as provided in this chapter, other ordinances of the City and by the statutes of the state.
The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. All members of the
Planning Commission shall be voting members. The City Council appoints all members of the
Planning Commission, pursuant to Government Code Section 65100 of the California
Government Code. In addition to the general qualifications for appointments in Chapter 2. 18 of
the Vista Municipal Code, no appointment of any employee of the City or a member of the City
Council may be made to the Planning Commission.
Prior Code 2- 28; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. 2013- 11, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2.48.030 Appointment of Members and Additional Qualifications
Prior Code 2- 29; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. 2013-
11, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2.48.040 Term of Office - Removal Conditions
Prior Code 2- 30; Ord. No. 70-41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 86- 53, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 89-
26, Amended 7/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2013- 11, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2017- 18, Repealed 11/ 14/ 17)
See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2.48.050 Compensation of Members
Members of the Planning Commission may serve with compensation as fixed by the City
Council from time to time by resolution or ordinance.
Prior Code 2- 31; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 2013- 11, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
2. 48 ( l) Vista 12/ 15/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2.48.060 Secretary
The secretary of the Planning Commission shall be the Director of Community
Development or their designee.
Prior Code 2- 32; Ord. No. 70-41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 86- 53, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 99-
18, Amended, 09/ 28/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 11, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2.48.070 Meetings - Time and Location
Prior Code 2- 33; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70; Ord. No. 78- 49, Amended 9/ 28/ 78; Ord. No. 2013-
11, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2.48.080 Powers and Duties
The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties, except as
otherwise provided by law:
A. To recommend to the City Council plans for the regulation of the future growth,
development and beautification of the City in respect to its public buildings, works, streets,
grounds and vacant lots.
B. To recommend to the City Council plans consistent with the future growth and
development of the City in order to secure for the City and its inhabitants, sanitation and proper
service of all public utilities.
C. To make recommendations to any public authority or to any corporation or
individual with reference to the location of any proposed buildings, structures or works.
D. To recommend to the City Council the approval or disapproval of maps or plats
of subdivisions of land.
E. To do such other things as shall be necessary to carry out the provisions of the
City' s zoning and subdivision laws and regulations and to study, prepare and recommend a
master or general plan or amendment thereto for the physical development of the City and any
abutting land outside its boundaries.
F. To hear and determine all applications for special use permits, variances or any
other zoning permits and amendments.
G. The Planning Commission shall have any and all other powers and duties
provided by ordinance and by state law.
Prior Code 2- 34; Ord. No. 70- 41, Amended 10/ 19/ 70)
2. 48 ( 2) Vista 12/ 15/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.52
Beautification and Improvement Commission
Sections:
2. 52.010 Established - Membership
2. 52.020 Composition; Appointment; Qualifications
2. 52.030 Term of Office - Vacancy Filling
2. 52.040 Organization - Election of Officers
2. 52.050 Meetings - Rules and Regulations
2. 52.060 Powers and Duties
Section 2. 52.010 Established - Membership
Prior Code 2- 52; Ord. No. 88-40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 2005- 4, Amended, 03/ 08/ 05; Ord. No.
2007- 18, Repealed, 9/ 25/ 07)
Section 2. 52.020 Composition; Appointment; Qualifications
Prior Code 2- 53; Ord. No. 88-40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No.
2005- 4, Amended, 03/ 08/ 05; Ord. No. 2007- 18, Repealed, 9/ 25/ 07)
Section 2. 52.030 Term of Office - Vacancy Filling
Prior Code 2- 54; Ord. No. 88-40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 2005- 4, Amended, 03/ 08/ 05; Ord. No.
2007- 18, Repealed, 9/ 25/ 07)
Section 2. 52.040 Organization - Election of Officers
Prior Code 2- 55; Ord. No. 88- 40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 99- 18, Repealed, 09/ 28/ 99)
Section 2. 52.050 Meetings - Rules and Regulations
Prior Code 2- 56; Ord. No. 88- 40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 2007- 18, Repealed, 9/ 25/ 07)
Section 2. 52.060 Powers and Duties
Prior Code 2- 57; Ord. No. 88-40, Amended 11/ 14/ 88; Ord. No. 2005- 4, Amended, 03/ 08/ 05; Ord. No.
2007- 18, Repealed, 9/ 25/ 07)
2. 52 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.56
Senior Citizens Affairs Commission
Sections:
2. 56.010 Purpose
2. 56.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
2. 56.030 Term of Office
2. 56.040 Appointment of Liaison
2. 56.050 Absences and Removal from Office
2. 56.060 Organization and Meetings
2. 56.070 Powers and Duties
2. 56.080 Staff Assistance and Financial Support
Section 2. 56.010 Purpose
A. It is the purpose and intent of the City Council to establish a Senior Citizens
Affairs Commission as an advisory commission to make recommendations to and advise the
City Council with respect to all matters pertinent to senior citizens in the city.
B. " Senior Citizens" are defined as persons 55 years of age or older.
Prior Code 26- 1; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89)
Section 2. 56.020 Establishment of Senior Citizens Affairs Commission; Number and
Additional Qualifications of Members
A. Establishment of Commission and Number of Members. A Senior Citizens
Affairs Commission for the City of Vista is hereby established to perform the responsibilities and
duties, and subject to the limitations and requirements, set forth in this chapter. The Senior
Citizens Affairs Commission shall be composed of seven members.
B. Appointment of Members; Additional Qualifications. In addition to the general
qualifications for appointment in Chapter 2. 18 of the Vista Municipal Code, the members of the
Senior Citizens Affairs Commission shall represent the senior citizens of the community. It is
the intent of the City Council that, at all times, no fewer than three members of the Commission
shall be senior citizens.
Prior Code 26- 2; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 27,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 03; Ord. No. 2007- 6, Amended, 5/ 22/ 07; Ord. No. 2013- 12, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 56.030 Term of Office
Prior Code 26- 2; Ord. No. 1989- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2017- 18, Repealed 11/ 14/ 17)
See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 56.040 Appointment of Liaison
Prior Code 26- 2; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2013- 12, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13)
See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 56.050 Absences and Removal from Office
Prior Code 26- 2; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2013- 12, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13)
See VMC Chapter 2. 18
2. 56 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 56.060 Organization and Meetings
The Commission may appoint, at its discretion, committees to concern themselves with
specific community problems. Such committees may be composed of citizens of the city who
are not members of the Commission, except that the Chairperson of each such committee must
be a member of the Commission.
Prior Code 26- 2; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 99- 18, Amended 09/ 28/ 99; Ord. No. 2007- 6,
Amended, 5/ 22/ 07; Ord. No. 2013- 12, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 56.070 Powers and Duties
The following are the duties and functions of the Commission:
A. To identify community resources that promote the physical, emotional and social
wellbeing of older adults and to involve them in all aspects of community life.
B. To periodically review the effectiveness of Center programs and recommend
modifications as necessary.
C. To provide a forum for senior citizens to bring forth related matters.
D. To make recommendations to the City Council on matters relevant to senior
citizens as deemed appropriate by the City Council or the Commission.
Prior Code 26- 3; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 56.080 Financial Support
In the event that private funds or funds from other governmental agencies are made
available for specific projects, surveys, educational programs or general program support, the
City, upon recommendation by the Commission and approval by the City Council, may enter
into appropriate contracts for the utilization of such funds and the furtherance of the purpose
and intent, and the duties and functions, of the Commission.
Prior Code 26- 4; Ord. No. 89- 10, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 2013- 12, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
2. 56 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.58
Youth Advisory Commission
Sections:
2. 58.010 Purpose and Intent
2. 58.020 Establishment and Composition of Youth Commission
2. 58.040 Term of Office
2. 58.070 Powers and Duties
2. 58.080 Ad Hoc Committees
2. 58.090 Youth Advisory Commission; Staff Assistance and Financial Support
Section 2. 58.010 Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose and intent of the City Council of the City of Vista to establish a Youth
Advisory Commission to which the City Council will refer youth- related matters for input and
make recommendations to the City Council prior to Council acts on matters pertinent to the
young people in the City of Vista, and to accomplish, among other things:
A. The development of mutual understanding and respect between said young
people and the adult citizens of Vista.
B. To establish liaison and maintain communications with the young people of the
community so as to better understand the problems and difficulties confronting young people in
today's complex urban society.
C. To establish a forum for meaningful discussion where the youth of Vista can " say
what's on their mind." D. To enhance a feeling of mutual respect and understanding on the
part of all age groups in the City of Vista.
E. To encourage full and active participation in all phases of governmental process
by the young people of this community.
F. To propose specific programs in areas in which it determines that the needs of
youth are not being met by other organizations.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 58.020 Establishment and Composition
There is hereby established the Youth Advisory Commission of the City of Vista, which is
an advisory commission to the City Council. The Commission shall be composed of eleven
regular members.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. no. 2013- 13, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 58.030 Appointment of Members and Additional Qualifications
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 58.040 Term of Office
The term of appointment for members of the Youth Advisory Commission shall be two
years. Members shall be eligible for an additional term of appointment by the Mayor and
confirmation by the City Council provided they continue to meet the eligibility requirements as
set forth in Chapter 2. 18 of the Vista Municipal Code. Each commissioner shall serve until his
successor is duly appointed and approved.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
2. 58 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 58.050 Organization; Election of Officers
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 58.060 Meeting Attendance; Rules and Regulations
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 58.070 Powers and Duties
The duties of the Youth Advisory Commission shall be as follows:
A. To act in an advisory capacity to the City Council, City Manager in matters
pertinent to youth activities.
B. Recommend to the City Council how funds generated from fundraising events
shall be spent of which 75% shall be devoted to scholarships for youth recreation programs and
the remaining 25% may be recommended to be used for discretionary youth- related activities.
C. Promote and participate in youth- oriented community services activities.
D. Promote and participate in county-wide youth forums and youth leadership
conferences.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Amended 6/ 11/ 13; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 58.080 Ad Hoc Committees
The Youth Advisory Commission may appoint, at its discretion, committees to concern
themselves with specific community programs, projects, activities or expressed needs. These
committees may be composed of citizens who are not members of the Commission, except that
each such committee must have a member of the Youth Advisory Commission as a member of
said committee.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06)
Section 2. 58.090 Financial Support
In the event that private funds from other governmental agencies are made available for
special projects, surveys, educational programs or general program support, the City Manager
is authorized, upon recommendation of the Commission and approval of the City Council, to
enter into appropriate contracts for the utilization of such funds in furtherance of the purpose
and intent of the duties and functions of the Commission.
Ord. No. 2006- 1, Added, 01/ 24/ 06; Ord. No. 2013- 13, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
2. 58 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.60
Traffic Commission
Sections:
2. 60.010 Purpose
2. 60.020 Establishment, Composition and Additional Qualifications
2. 60.030 Election of Officers
2. 60.050 Powers and Duties
2. 60.060 Recommendations to Council on Traffic Matters
Section 2. 60.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Traffic Commission is to advise the City Council on matters relating
to safe and efficient movement of traffic, including pedestrians and bicycles, upon existing
streets, roads, and highways of the City.
Prior Code 18- 4; Ord. No. 70- 17, Amended 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended 4/ 10/ 72; Ord. No. 75- 4,
Amended 2/ 10/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 14, Amended 4/ 26/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 4, Amended 2/ 14/ 77; Ord. No. 86-
52, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 27, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 89- 26, Amended 7/ 10/ 89; Ord. 99-
14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 14, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 60.020 Establishment, Composition and Additional Qualifications
The Traffic Commission of the City of Vista is hereby established. The Traffic
Commission shall be composed of seven members.
In addition to the general qualifications for appointment in Chapter 2. 18 of the Vista
Municipal Code, it is the intent of the City Council that there be at least one member of the
Commission appointed at all times whose appointment was recommended by the Board of
Trustees of the Vista Unified School District, and at least one member appointed at all times
whose appointment was recommended by the Vista Chamber of Commerce.
Prior Code 18- 4; Ord. No. 70- 17, Amended 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended 4/ 10/ 72; Ord. No. 75- 4,
Amended 2/ 10/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 14, Amended 4/ 26/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 4, Amended 2/ 14/ 77; Ord. No. 86-
52, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 27, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 89- 26, Amended 7/ 10/ 89; Ord. No.
91- 03, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 14, Amended 6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 60.030 Election of Officers
Prior Code 18- 4; Ord. No. 70- 17, Amended 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended 4/ 10/ 72; Ord. No. 75- 4,
Amended 2/ 10/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 14, Amended 4/ 26/ 76; Ord. No. 77-4, Amended 2/ 14/ 77; Ord. No. 86-
52, Amended 10/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 27, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 89- 26, Amended 7/ 10/ 89; Ord. 99-
18, Repealed, 09/ 28/99) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 60.040 Meetings - Rules and Regulations - Training
Prior Code 18- 4; Ord. No. 2013- 14, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 60.050 Powers and Duties
It shall be the duty of the Traffic Commission to advise the City Council on matters
relating to the safe and efficient movement of traffic brought to them by staff in accordance with
2. 60 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 60.060, including pedestrians and bicycles, upon existing streets, roads and
highways of this city. The Traffic Commission shall study all matters referred to it concerning
traffic movement and safety and make recommendations to the City Council regarding
measures that should be taken to promote traffic movement and safety within the city as
follows:
A. Review staff studies and actions and make recommendations to the City Council
on traffic matters.
B. Provide a public forum for citizens to communicate their traffic complaints,
concerns, requests and suggestions. Staff shall consider and evaluate complaints, concerns,
requests and suggestions expressed by citizens during Traffic Commission meetings and
communicate directly with the citizens. If necessary, in accordance with Section 2. 60.060, staff
will bring back a report to the Traffic Commission for consideration and approval. .
C. 1. The Traffic Commission shall review and comment on priorities for road
and street improvements in the city. Staff will present to the Traffic Commission on an annual
basis a list of prioritized intersections that meet the established State and Federal traffic signal
installation standards for the Commission' s review and approval.
2. Nothing in this subsection shall authorize the Traffic Commission to make
any decision/ recommendation or take any action on any matter, which is properly under the
jurisdiction and consideration of any other board or commission in accordance with this code.
D. The Traffic Commission shall periodically review the provisions of this chapter
and may recommend any changes to this chapter as deemed necessary for consideration by
the City Council.
Prior Code 18- 4; Ord. No. 2019- 6, Amended 2/ 26/ 19)
Section 2. 60.060 Recommendations to Council on Traffic Matters
Whenever in this chapter it is provided that the City Council shall direct or approve by
resolution or ordinance action to be taken concerning traffic matters in the City, the matter shall
first be referred to the Traffic Commission for a report or recommendations. If the City Council
determines that a matter is of an emergency nature, the City Council may act without first
obtaining such report or recommendation.
Prior Code 18- 4)
2. 60 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2. 62
Community Safety Commission
Sections:
2. 62.010 Purpose
2. 62.020 Establishment of Commission
2. 62.030 Powers and Duties
2. 62.040 Law Enforcement Advisors to the Commission
Section 2. 62.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and enhance community safety and welfare
by the establishment and operation of a Community Safety Commission of the City of Vista.
The Commission' s purpose is to conduct meaningful and constructive dialogue with the City' s
law enforcement services provider on law enforcement concerns, issues and priorities and
ensure that concerns are addressed in a collaborative and effective manner.
Ord. No. 99- 15, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 2, Amended 3/ 26/ 13)
Section 2. 62.020 Establishment of Commission
A Community Safety Commission of the City of Vista is hereby established as a
standing commission of the City. The Commission shall consist of seven members. One
member shall be recommended for appointment by Vista Unified School District. There shall be
two non- voting youth representatives
Ord. No. 1999- 15, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 2, Amended 3/ 26/ 13; Ord. No. 2017- 18, Amended
11/ 14/ 17)
Section 2. 62.030 Powers and Duties
The Community Safety Commission shall act in an advisory capacity to the City Council
and the City' s law enforcement services provider and shall perform the following responsibilities
on a continuing basis:
A. Communicate and cooperate with the individual citizens and community groups
in identifying community safety concerns and solutions.
B. Communicate and cooperate with the City' s law enforcement services provider in
identifying community safety concerns and solutions.
C. Promote cooperation and encourage coordination between the Commission, the
City' s law enforcement services provider, and other entities, public and private, who are
involved with community safety activities and efforts.
D. Prepare an annual report to the City Council and to the community on the
activities of the Commission.
Ord. No. 99- 15, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 2, Amended 3/ 26/ 13)
Section 2. 62.040 Law Enforcement Advisors to the Commission
The City Manager shall arrange to have one or more representatives of the City' s law
enforcement services provider designated as advisor(s) to the Commission. The City Manager
may appoint such additional staff advisors or assistants as is deemed necessary for the
Commission to carry out its purposes.
Ord. No. 99- 15, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2013- 2, Amended 3/ 26/ 13)
2. 62 ( l) Vista 12/ 15/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.64
Emergency Services
Sections:
2. 64.010 Emergency Defined
2. 64.020 Purpose of Provisions
2. 64.030 Disaster Council - Established - Membership
2. 64.040 Disaster Council - Powers and Duties
2. 64.050 Directors - Established
2. 64.060 Directors - Powers and Duties
2. 64.070 Emergency Organization - Membership
2. 64.080 Emergency Plan Regulations
2. 64.090 Expenditures
2. 64. 100 Unlawful Activities Designated - Penalty
Section 2. 64.010 Emergency Defined
As used in this chapter, " emergency" means the actual threatened existence of
conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this City
caused by such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake or other
conditions, including conditions resulting from war or imminent threat of war, but other than
conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond
the control of the services, personnel, equipment and facilities of this City, requiring the
combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
Prior Code 7- 1; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.020 Purpose of Provisions
The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and carrying
out of plans for the protection of persons and property within this city in the event of an
emergency, the direction of the emergency organization, and the coordination of the emergency
functions of this City with all other public agencies, corporations, organizations and affected
private persons.
Prior Code 7- 2; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.030 Disaster Council  Established - Membership
The Vista Disaster Council is created and shall consist of the following:
A. The Mayor, who shall be Chairperson.
B. The Director of Emergency Services, who shall be Vice Chairperson.
C. The Assistant Director of Emergency Services.
D. Such chiefs of emergency services as are provided for in a current emergency
plan of this City, adopted pursuant to this chapter.
E. Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional or other
organizations having an official emergency responsibility, as may be appointed by the Director
with the advice and consent of the City Council.
Prior Code 7- 3; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
2. 64 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 64.040 Disaster Council - Powers and Duties
It shall be the duty of the Vista Disaster Council, and it is empowered, to develop and
recommend for adoption by the City Council, emergency and mutual aid plans and agreements
and such ordinances and resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement
such plans and agreements. The Disaster Council shall meet upon call of the Chairperson, or
in his absence from the City or inability to call such meeting, upon the call of the Vice
Chairperson.
Prior Code 7- 4; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.050 Directors - Established
A. There is created the Office of Director of Emergency Services. The City
Manager shall be the Director of Emergency Services.
B. There is created the Office of Assistant Director of Emergency Services, who
shall be appointed by the Director.
Prior Code 7- 5; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.060 Directors - Powers and Duties
A. The Director is empowered to:
1. Request the City Council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a " local emergency" if the City Council is in session, or to issue such proclamation
if City Council is not in session. Whenever a local emergency is proclaimed by the Director, the
City Council shall take action to ratify the proclamation within seven days thereafter or the
proclamation shall have no further effect or force;
2. Request the Governor to proclaim a " state of emergency" when, in the
opinion of the Director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope with the
emergency;
3. Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this City for
the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter;
4. Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of the
emergency organization of this City, and resolve questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise between them;
5. Represent this City in all dealings with public or private agencies on
matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein;
6. In the event of the proclamation of a " local emergency" as herein
provided, the proclamation of a " state of emergency" by the Governor or the Director of the
State Office of Emergency Services, or the existence of a " state of war emergency," the
Director is empowered:
a. To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency; provided, however,
such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest practicable time by the City
Council.
b. To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties
found lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind the City for the fair
value thereof, and, if required immediately, to commandeer the same for public use.
C. To require emergency services of any City officer or employee
and, in the event of the proclamation of a " state of emergency" in the county in which this City is
located or the existence of a " state of war emergency," to command the aid of as many citizens
of this community as he deems necessary in the execution of his duties; such persons shall be
2. 64 ( 2) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
entitled to all privileges, benefits and immunities as are provided by State law for registered
disaster service workers.
d. To requisition necessary personnel or material of any City
department or agency.
e. To execute all of his ordinary powers as City Manager, all of the
special powers conferred upon him by this chapter or by resolution or emergency plan pursuant
hereto adopted by the City Council, all powers conferred upon him by any statute, by any
agreement approved by the City Council, and by any other lawful authority.
B. The Director of Emergency Services shall designate the order of succession to
that office, to take effect in the event the Director is unavailable to attend meetings and
otherwise perform his duties during an emergency. Such order of succession shall be
approved by the City Council.
C. The Assistant Director shall, under the supervision of the Director and with the
assistance of Emergency Service Chiefs, develop emergency plans and manage the
emergency program of this City, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be
assigned by the Director.
Prior Code 7- 6; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.070 Emergency Organization - Membership
All officers and employees of this City, together with those volunteer forces enrolled to
aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations and persons who may by
agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed into service under the provisions of
Section 2. 64.060(A)( 6)( c), be charged with duties incident to the protection of life and property
in this City during such emergency, shall constitute the emergency organization of the City.
Prior Code 7- 7; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.080 Emergency Plan Regulations
The Vista Disaster Council shall be responsible for the development of the City
emergency plan, which shall provide for the effective mobilization of all of the resources of this
City, both public and private, to meet any condition constituting a local emergency, state of
emergency or state of war emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and
duties, services and staff of the emergency organization. Such plans shall take effect upon
adoption by resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code 7- 8; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64.090 Expenditures
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual aid
activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection and benefit of the
inhabitants and property of the City.
Prior Code 7- 9; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
Section 2. 64. 100 Unlawful Activities Designated - Penalty
It is a misdemeanor, punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16.010 of this
Code, for any person during an emergency to:
A. Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency organization in
the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or in the
performance of any duty imposed upon him by virtue of this chapter; and
2. 64 ( 3) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this
chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives
or property of inhabitants of this City, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection
thereof;
C. Wear, carry or display without authority, any means of identification specified by
the Emergency Agency of the State.
Prior Code 7- 10; Ord. No. 72- 51, Amended 12/ 11/ 72)
2. 64 ( 4) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.68
Fees and Charges for City Services
Sections:
2. 68.010 Scope and Intent
2. 68.020 Definitions
2. 68.030 Procedures
2. 68.040 Notices; Public Meeting
2. 68.050 Alternative Procedure
2. 68.060 Effective Date for Fees
2. 68.070 Reconsideration
2. 68.080 Supremacy of Procedures
Section 2. 68.010 Scope and Intent
For the purpose of recovering costs reasonably borne by the City, this chapter
authorizes the City Council to set or increase any and all fees. In accordance with Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution, the amount of those fees shall not exceed the costs reasonably
borne by the City of Vista in providing the associated municipal services.
Prior Code 10- 12; Ord. No. 82- 2, Amended 1/ 25/ 82; Ord. No. 2002- 14, Amended, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.020 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
A. " Fee" shall mean any payment required for any municipal service, permit,
license, certification, inspection, review, application, entitlement, product, or similar thing of
value or benefit. The term fee excludes the following: utility charges, fees imposed as an
incident of property which is specially regulated by Article XIIID of the California Constitution,
charges incurred under or due to franchise agreements, the provision of sewer services, sales
of retail merchandise, payments for the sale or lease of real property, fines, assessments, and
taxes.
B. " Set or Increase" shall mean and include an action to create, establish, impose,
set, calculate or increase fees, including any formula created or used for any of those purposes.
The term " set or increase" does not include an action to decrease fees or to temporarily
suspend fees, in whole or part. The return of a fee to its original set amount following a
temporary suspension of the fee shall not constitute an increase in a fee for the purposes of this
chapter.
C. " Costs Reasonably Borne" means the sum of the following:
1. All applicable direct costs including, but not limited to, salaries, wages,
overtime, employee fringe benefits, services and supplies, maintenance and operation
expenses, contracted services, special supplies, and any other direct expense incurred.
2. All applicable indirect costs including, but not restricted to, building
maintenance and operations, equipment maintenance and operations, communications
expenses, computer costs, printing and reproduction, and like expenses when distributed on an
accounted and documented rational proration system.
3. Fixed assets recovery expenses, consisting of depreciation of fixed
assets, and additional fixed asset expense recovery charges calculated on the current
estimated cost of replacement, divided by the approximate life expectancy of the fixed asset. A
further additional charge to make up the difference between book value depreciation not
2. 68 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
previously recovered and reserved in cash and the full cost of replacement, which also shall be
calculated and considered a cost so as to recover such unrecovered costs between book value
and cost of replacement over the remaining life of the asset.
4. General overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and charging
the expenses of the City Council, City Manager, Finance Department, City Clerk, City Attorney,
community promotion, Personnel Department, and all other staff and support services provided
to the entire City organization. Overhead shall be prorated between tax-financed services and
fee- financed services on the basis of said percentage so that each of taxes and fees and
charges shall proportionately defray such overhead costs.
5. Departmental overhead, expressed as a percentage, distributing and
charging the cost of each department head and his or her supporting expenses as enumerated
in Subsections A, B and C of this section.
6. Debt service costs, consisting of repayment of principal, payment of
interest, trustee fees and administrative expenses for all applicable bond, certificate, or
securities issued or loans. Any required coverage factors of added reserves beyond basic debt
service costs also shall be considered a cost if required by covenant within any securities
ordinance, resolution, indenture or general law applicable to the City.
Prior Code 10- 13; Ord. No. 82- 2, Amended 1/ 25/ 82; Ord. No. 2002- 14, Amended, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.030 Procedures
Except as provided in Section 2. 68. 050, all fees shall be set or increased using the
procedures in Section 2. 68. 040.
Prior Code 10- 14; Ord. No. 82- 2, Amended 1/ 25/ 82; Ord. No. 2002- 14, Amended, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.040 Notices; Public Meeting
The City, prior to setting or increasing a fee, shall conduct a noticed public hearing as
required by Section 66018 of the California Government Code. In addition, mailed notices shall
be provided and data shall be made available in accordance with Section 66016( a) for all fees
which are listed in Subsection ( d) of Section 66016.
Prior Code 10- 15; Ord. No. 82- 2, Amended 1/ 25/ 82; Ord. No. 82- 15, Amended 4/ 12/ 82; Ord. No. 95- 3,
Amended, 3/ 14/ 95; Ord. No. 2002- 14, Amended, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.050 Alternative Procedure
When State or Federal law requires the City to set or increase fees using procedures
that differ from those found in Section 2. 68. 040, the City shall use those other procedures for
the purposes of setting or increasing the applicable fees. When those alternative procedures
are used, the City shall not be required to comply with this chapter and any failure to comply
with this chapter shall neither give rise to any legal claim regarding that fee nor affect the validity
of that fee in any respect.
Prior Code 10- 17; Ord. No. 82- 2, Amended 1/ 25/ 82; Ord. No. 2002- 14, Amended, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.060 Effective Date for Fees
Fees shall become effective on the date specified by the City Council in the resolution
setting or increasing the fee. If no date is specified, the fee shall become effective on the 90th
day following the date of the resolution, or such earlier date as shall be determined by the City
Manager. However, no fee for development projects, as listed in Government Code Section
2. 68 ( 2) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
66017(a), shall become effective until at least 60 days have passed from the adoption of the
resolution setting or increasing that fee.
Ord. No. 2002- 14, Added, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.070 Reconsideration
Any person may seek reconsideration of a fee set or increased by the City Council when
the person believes that the fee has been set or increased in violation of this chapter or that it
exceeds the cost reasonably borne by the City. The request for reconsideration must be filed
with the City Clerk within ten days of the City Council' s original action to set or increase the fee.
The request for reconsideration shall explain any and all grounds for objecting to the fee. No
fee for which reconsideration has been timely and properly sought shall take effect until heard
by the City Council. Such request for reconsideration shall be placed on the agenda of a
regular City Council meeting, occurring within 30 days, after receipt of such request. The item
may be continued at the discretion of the City Council. A request for reconsideration shall not
affect the effective date of the fees which were not subject to the request for reconsideration.
Ord. No. 2002- 14, Added, 4/ 9/ 02)
Section 2. 68.080 Supremacy of Procedures
The procedures of this chapter shall be used to set and increase all fees previously
authorized by other provisions of this Municipal Code, even when the amount of a preexisting
fee was originally or most recently set or increased by ordinance.
Ord. No. 2002- 14, Added, 4/ 9/ 02)
2. 68 ( 3) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2. 72
Personnel System
Sections:
2. 72.010 Adoption and Purpose of Regulations
2. 72.020 Personnel Officer - Powers and Duties
2. 72.030 Positions Exempt from Chapter Application
2. 72.040 Personnel Rules Adopted - Contents
2. 72.050 Certain Rules Applicable to Exempt Positions
2. 72.060 Authority to Contract for Special Services
2. 72.070 Appropriation of Funds
2. 72.080 Appointing Authority
2. 72.090 Appointments to the Competitive Service
2. 72. 100 Probationary Period
2. 72. 110 Suspension Conditions
2. 72. 120 Abolition of Positions
2. 72. 130 Discrimination Prohibited
Section 2. 72.010 Adoption and Purpose of Regulations
In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with personnel
matters, to attract to municipal service the best and most competent persons available, to
assure that appointments and promotions of employees will be based on merit and fitness as
determined by competitive test, and to provide a reasonable degree of security for qualified
employees, the personnel system set out in this chapter is adopted.
Prior Code 23- 3; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72.020 Personnel Officer - Powers and Duties
A. The City Manager shall be Ex- Officio Personnel Officer. With the approval of the
City Council, the City Manager may delegate any of the powers and duties conferred upon him
as Personnel Officer under this chapter to any other officer or employee of the City or may
recommend that such powers and duties be performed under contract as provided in Section
2. 72. 060.
B. The City Manager shall:
1. Administer all the provisions of this chapter and of the personnel rules not
specifically reserved to the City Council.
2. Prepare and recommend to the City Council revisions and amendments
to the personnel rules. The City Attorney shall approve the legality of such revisions and
amendments prior to their submission to the City Council.
3. Prepare a position classification plan, including class specifications and
revisions of the plan. The plan, and any revisions thereof, shall become effective upon
approval by the City Council. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Manager may make
changes to previously-approved class specifications, but not to position classifications or plans
of compensation, without City Council approval.
4. Prepare a plan of compensation and revisions thereof covering all
classifications in the competitive service. The plan, and any revisions thereof, shall become
effective upon approval by the City Council.
Prior Code 23- 4; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63; Ord. No. 2008- 19, Amended, 6/ 10/ 08)
2. 72 ( l) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 72.030 Positions Exempt from Chapter Application
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all offices, positions and employments in the
service of the City, except the following:
A. Elective officers
B. Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees
C. Persons engaged under contract to supply expert, professional or technical
services for a definite period of time.
D. Volunteer personnel, such as volunteer firemen, who receive no regular
compensation from the City.
E. Those management or confidential employees designated as exempt by
resolution of the City Council.
F. The City Manager
G. The City Clerk
H. All regular full- time heads of departments now existing or hereafter created who
serve at the pleasure of the City Manager, including but not limited to:
1. The Director of Finance and City Treasurer
2. The Director of Planning
3. The Building Official
4. The Community Center Development Director
5. The Director of Public Works
6. The Director of Recreation and Community Services
Prior Code 23- 5; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63; Ord. No. 70- 30, Amended 8/ 3/ 70; Ord. No. 73-47,
Amended 11/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 77- 15, Amended 3/ 15/ 77; Ord. No. 78-47, Amended 10/ 11/ 78; Ord. No. 81-
46, Amended 8/ 10/ 81)
Section 2. 72.040 Personnel Rules Adopted - Contents
Personnel rules, prepared by the City Manager, subject to this chapter and to revision
by the City Council, shall be adopted, and may be amended from time to time by resolution of
the City Council. The rules shall establish specific procedures and regulations governing the
following phases of the personnel system:
A. Preparation, installation, revision and maintenance of a position classification
plan covering all positions in the competitive service, including employment standards and
qualifications for each class.
B. Preparation, revision and administration of a plan of compensation directly
correlated with the position classification plan, providing a rate or range of pay for each class.
C. Public announcement of all tests and the acceptance of applications for
employment.
D. Preparation and conduct of tests and the establishment and use of resulting
employment lists containing names of persons eligible for appointment.
E. Certification and appointment of persons from employment lists, and the making
of temporary and emergency appointments.
F. Evaluation of employees during the probationary period.
G. Transfer, promotion, demotion and reinstatement of employees in the
competitive service.
H. Separation of employees from the City service through layoff, suspension and
dismissal.
I. Standardization of hours of work, attendance and leave regulations, working
conditions and the development of employee morale, welfare and training.
2. 72 ( 2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
J. Suitable provision for orderly and equitable presentations by the City
Administrator to the City Council for employees, relating to general conditions of employment.
K. Suitable provision for orderly and equitable resolution of employees' grievances
arising out of the application or interpretation of existing rules or practices, or any circumstance
that results in a claimed inequity or damage to an employee, including demotion, suspension,
dismissal, reduction in pay or other disciplinary action.
Prior Code 23- 6; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63; Ord. No. 74- 29, Amended 5/ 13/ 74)
Section 2. 72.050 Certain Rules Applicable to Exempt Positions
The provisions of the personnel rules relating to attendance and leaves shall apply to
the incumbents of full-time, exempt positions.
Prior Code 23- 7; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72.060 Authority to Contract for Special Services
The City Manager shall consider and make recommendations to the City Council
regarding the extent to which the City should contract for the performance of technical services
in connection with the establishment or operation of the personnel system. The City Council
may contract with any qualified person or agency for the performance of all or any of the
following responsibilities and duties imposed by this chapter:
A. The preparation of personnel rules and subsequent revisions and amendments
thereof.
B. The preparation of a position classification plan, and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof.
C. The preparation of a plan of compensation, and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof.
D. The preparation, conduct and grading of competitive tests.
E. Special and technical services of advisory or informational character on matters
relating to personnel administration.
Prior Code 23- 8; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72.070 Appropriation of Funds
The City Council shall appropriate such funds as are necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 23- 9; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72.080 Appointing Authority
The City Council, the City Manager and any other officer in whom is vested the power to
appoint, make transfers, promotions, demotions, reinstatements, layoffs, and to suspend or
dismiss employees shall retain such power, subject to the provisions of this chapter and the
personnel rules.
Prior Code 23- 10; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72.090 Appointments to the Competitive Service
A. Appointments to vacant positions in the competitive service shall be made in
accordance with the personnel rules. Appointments and promotions shall be based on merit
and fitness to be ascertained so far as practicable by competitive examinations. Examinations
2. 72 ( 3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
shall be used and conducted to aid in the selection of qualified employees, and shall consist of
such recognized selection techniques as achievement and aptitude tests, other written tests,
personal interview, performance tests, evaluation of daily work performance, work sampler or
any combination of these, which will, in the opinion of the Personnel Officer test fairly the
qualifications of candidates. Physical and medical tests may be given as a part of any
examination.
B. In any examination the Personnel Officer may include, in addition to competitive
tests, a qualifying test or tests, and set minimum standards therefore.
C. Appointments shall be made by the City Council, the City Manager or by the
officer in whom the power to make appointments is vested by law.
D. When appointment is to be made to a vacancy in the competitive service, the
City Manager shall transmit to the appointing power the names of all persons on the
appropriate certified employment or promotional list, in the order in which they appear on the
list.
E. Special credits may be granted in meeting any qualification or in giving any test
or the establishment of any employment or promotional list for service rendered to the City, in
accordance with personnel rules adopted in accordance with Section 2. 72. 040.
F. No person may be an applicant, or receive an appointment to the competitive or
exempt service, who is a member of the immediate family of the appointing authority, a member
of the immediate family of a member of the City Council, or a member of the immediate family
of a department head.
G. During the period of suspension of an employee or pending final action on
proceedings to review suspension, demotion or dismissal of an employee, such vacancy may
be filled by the appointing authority subject to the provisions of this article and the personnel
rules.
Prior Code 23- 11; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63; Ord. No. 70- 30, Amended 8/ 3/ 70; Ord. No. 74- 40,
Amended 7/ 1/ 74)
Section 2. 72. 100 Probationary Period
A. All regular appointments, including promotional appointments, shall be for a
probationary period of not less than six months; except, that as to any class of position, the
rules may provide for an extension of the period for not more than an additional six months.
During the probationary period, the employee may be rejected at any time without right of
appeal or hearing.
B. An employee rejected during the probationary period from a position to which he
has been promoted shall be reinstated to the position from which he was promoted, unless he
is dismissed from the City service as provided in this chapter and the personnel rules.
C. An employee in the competitive service promoted or transferred to a position not
included in the competitive service shall be reinstated to the position from which he was
promoted or transferred if, within six months after such promotion or transfer, action is taken to
reject or dismiss him, unless he is discharged in the manner provided in this chapter and the
personnel rules for positions in the competitive service.
Prior Code 23- 12; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72. 110 Suspension Conditions
Any person holding a position or employment in the competitive service shall be subject
to disciplinary suspension, without pay, by the City Manager and without right of appeal, but
2. 72 ( 4) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
such suspensions shall not exceed a total of thirty calendar days in any fiscal year. A
department head not having power of appointment may make disciplinary suspensions in
accordance with the rules.
Prior Code 23- 13; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72. 120 Abolition of Positions
A. Whenever in the judgment of the City Council it becomes necessary in the
interest of economy or because the necessity for the position or employment involved no longer
exists, the City Council may abolish any position or employment in the competitive service and
lay off, demote or transfer an employee holding such position or employment without filing
written charges and without the right of appeal.
B. Seniority shall be observed in effecting such reduction in personnel and the
order of layoff shall be in the reverse order of total cumulative time served in the City service
upon the effective date of the layoff. Layoff shall be made within classes of position, and all
provisional employees in the affected classes shall be laid off prior to the layoff of any
probationary or permanent employee.
C. For the purpose of determining order of layoff, total cumulative time shall include
time served on military leave of absence.
D. The names of probationary and permanent employees laid off shall be placed
upon reemployment lists for classes which, in the opinion of the Personnel Officer, require
basically the same qualifications and duties and responsibilities or those of the class of
positions from which layoff was made.
E. Names of persons laid off shall be placed upon reemployment lists in order of
their competency, and shall remain on such lists for a period of two years unless reemployed
sooner. For reemployment purposes, competency of a person laid off shall be determined by
the head of the department in which such person worked.
Prior Code 23- 14; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63)
Section 2. 72. 130 Discrimination Prohibited
All employees of the City and all persons seeking such employment shall be granted
equal employment opportunities and neither the City nor any recognized employee organization
representing employees of the City shall violate or in any way fail to conform to the Fair
Employment Practice Act of the State ( Part 4.5, Division 2, of the Labor Code, commencing
with Section 1410) and all administrative regulations lawfully promulgated pursuant thereto, and
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ( Subchapter VI, Chapter 21, of Title 42 of the United
States Code, commencing with Section 2000e) and any and all administrative regulations
lawfully promulgated pursuant thereto.
Prior Code 23- 17; Ord. No. 63- 17, Added 6/ 11/ 63; Ord. No. 76- 55, Amended 1/ 10/ 77)
2. 72 ( 5) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 2.76
Mobile Home Park Review Board
Sections:
2. 76.010 Purpose
2. 76.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
2. 76.040 Powers and Duties of the Mobile Home Park Review Board
2. 76.060 Termination
Section 2. 76.010 Purpose
A. The City Council has found and determined that mobile home parks within the
City are an important supply of housing for senior citizens and low and moderate income
persons and families. However, residents of mobile home parks, as tenants, face certain
disadvantages in their relationship with the owners of the mobile home parks, as landlords.
Both the City Council of the City and the California State Legislature have determined it is
necessary and proper for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
state and community to regulate certain aspects of the tenant- landlord relationship and other
conditions within mobile home parks. Included among the regulations adopted by the California
Legislature are the Mobile Home Residency Law, commencing with Government Code Section
798, and the various housing and other regulations included in Division 13 of the Health &
Safety Code, commencing with Section 18000.
B. For its part, the City of Vista has established a program of contractual
obligations, known as the City of Vista " Don Olmstead" Mobile Home Park Accord Program,
with owners of privately held mobile home parks within the City to encourage equitable
treatment, fair dealing and an alternative " model lease agreement" between the owners and
their tenants. An important element of the Don Olmstead Mobile Home Park Accord Program is
the provision of a means for identifying and resolving disputes between residents and owners.
Under the Accord agreements, the City Council has agreed to establish a " citizen review panel"
to receive complaints from residents and owners regarding alleged violations of the Accord, and
to seek to resolve such disputes. The establishment of the City of Vista Mobile Home Park
Review Board is intended by the City Council to fulfill the obligation to establish a citizen review
panel under the Accord Program.
C. Repealed. ( Board as forum for resolving complaints and disputes).
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. 97- 22, Amended, 01/ 13/ 98)
Section 2. 76.020 Establishment, Composition, and Additional Qualifications
A. There is hereby established the Mobile Home Park Review Board of the City of
Vista. The Mobile Home Park Review Board shall consist of three members.
B. No person shall be appointed to the Board unless that person satisfies each of
the following conditions:
1. The person shall be eligible to register as a qualified elector of the City of
Vista; and
2. The person shall not have any property, financial or economic interest as
an owner, lessee, or tenant in any mobile home park.
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. 97-22, Amended, 01/ 13/ 98; Ord. No. 2013- 15, Amended
6/ 11/ 13)
2. 76 ( l) Vista 11/ 09/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 2. 76.030 Qualifications of Members; Conflict of Interests
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. No. 2013- 15, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 76.040 Powers and Duties of the Mobile Home Park Review Board
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
A. Repealed.
B. Rules of Procedure.
1. All complaints from residents, homeowners, tenants of mobile home
parks, or owners of mobile home parks shall be processed in the following manner:
a. Each complainant shall file a written complaint with the opposing
party prior to filing a complaint with the City.
b. Each complaint shall be screened by a designated City employee.
C. A designated City employee shall attempt to resolve the dispute
between the parties at an administrative level.
d. In the event the dispute cannot be resolved by the City employee,
the complaint will be reviewed to determine whether it falls within the Board' s scope of
authority.
e. Either party reserves the right to object to the City employee's
determination that the complaint is within the Board' s scope of authority.
f. The complain process shall be considered privileged under
California Evidence Code Sections 1152 and 1152. 5.
2. The Board may adopt such additional rules of procedure as it may deem
necessary and proper for the conduct of its business.
C. Investigations and Reports. The Board shall conduct such investigations and
undertake such studies of conditions and circumstances related to mobile home parks within
the City of Vista as the City Council may direct from time to time. The Board shall issue
findings and reports on the results of its investigations and studies, along with its
recommendations, to the City Council.
D. Complaints and Hearings.
1. The Board is authorized to hear complaints filed with the City from
residents, homeowners, tenants of mobile home parks and owners of mobile home parks which
fall within one of the following categories:
a. Offering of the Model Lease.
b. Issues concerning rent, including, but not limited to, core rent,
pass-through rent, rent increases, CPI calculations, and rent credit.
C. Assignment of Model Leases.
d. Failure of owners of mobile home parks to comply with the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing with respect to the Accord or Model Lease.
e. Unfair business practices with respect to leasing of spaces or
dealing with residents of the mobile home park.
f. Compliance with the Model Lease, not including park rules and
regulations, except to the extent that such disputes regarding park rules and regulations rise to
a level of an unfair business practice.
2. For the purpose of this section, the definitions for the following terms
shall apply:
a. Failing to comply with the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing" shall mean any act or omission that deprives existing or prospective tenants of the
benefits afforded under the Accord or Model Lease.
2. 76 ( 2) Vista 11/ 09/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
b. Unfair business practices" shall mean any practice which
offends an established public policy or is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, or
substantially injurious to parties intended to be benefited by the Accord or Model Lease.
3. The Board shall consider all such complaints at hearings which provide
due process to all parties to the complaints. Upon its own discretion, the Board may undertake
such further investigations and inquiries as the Board deems proper and necessary. At the
conclusion of its consideration, the Board shall issue its findings of fact and recommendations
regarding any complaint. The Board shall have sole and absolute discretion with regard to the
consideration and processing of any complaint, including the decision whether or not a followup
investigation is warranted.
E. Effect of Recommendations. The Board is vested with the authority to finally
determine, on behalf of the City, whether or not a breach or violation of any term, condition, or
obligation under the Accord or Model Lease, that are consequential to the Accord, or any other
contract to which the City is a party has, or may have occurred, and to determine the
appropriate remedial action, if any to be undertaken by the City.
F. Remedial Actions. Upon determination by the Board that a violation or breach of
any agreement or contract to which the City is a party has occurred, the Board may pursue any
of the following remedial actions:
1. Referral to appropriate enforcement authority of the State, City or other
authority.
2. Referral of the parties to a third party dispute resolution process
including, without limitation, third party mediation or assisted negotiation.
3. Referral to a legal ombudsman program, including any such program
offered and administered by the City.
4. Recommendation directly to the parties involved in the complaint or
dispute for a consensual resolution and agreement.
The board' s access to remedies and recommended remedial actions, if
warranted are neither intended nor shall it be deemed to supersede or displace the proper
authority of any other authorized body, agency or office.
G. Appropriations. The board shall operate within the limits of appropriations
authorized from time to time by the City Council. The board shall have no authority to commit
funds of the City in excess of authorized appropriations.
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. 97-22, Amended, 01/ 13/ 98; Ord. No. 2013- 15, Repealed
6/ 11/ 13)
Section 2. 76.050 Staffing and Assistance
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. No. 2013- 15, Repealed 6/ 11/ 13) See VMC Chapter 2. 18
Section 2. 76.060 Termination
This chapter shall terminate automatically and expire, the terms of each of the Board
Members shall expire, and the Board shall cease to function and exist, on the date the Accord
expires.
Ord. No. 96- 3, Enacted, 03/ 12/ 96; Ord. No. 2018- 13, Amended, 10/ 09/ 18)
2. 76 ( 3) Vista 11/ 09/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.04
Tax Assessment and Collection
Sections:
3.04.010 Transfer of Duties to County
Section 3.04.010 Transfer of Duties to County
A. The assessment and tax collection duties performed by the City Assessor and Tax
Collector are transferred to the Assessor and Tax Collector of the county.
B. The offices of City Assessor and Tax Collector are abolished.
C. The duties of the City Assessor, other than the assessing of city property, and the
duties of the Tax Collector, other than the collection of taxes, are transferred to and shall be
performed by the City Clerk, or such officer of the county as may, by contract with the City, be
designated and authorized to perform such duties.
Prior Code 29. 1; Ord. 63- 1, Added 1/ 28/ 63)
3. 04 ( l) Vista 1/ 31/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.08
Purchasing System
Sections:
3. 08.010 Purpose; Compliance Required
3. 08.020 Definitions
3. 08.030 Purchasing Officer
3. 08.040 Formal Bidding Procedure
3. 08.050 Informal Bidding Procedure
3. 08.060 Alternative Bidding Procedure
3. 08.065 Prequalification of Contractors and Subcontractors
3. 08.070 Post- Bid Negotiations
3. 08.075 Design- Build Contracts
3. 08.080 Purchase Order and Requisition Process
3. 08.090 Award and Execution of Contracts
3. 08. 100 Modifications of Awarded Contracts
3. 08. 110 Bidder' s Security
3. 08. 120 Calculation of Dollar Amounts
3. 08. 130 City Dispositions of Surplus Equipment and Supplies
3. 08. 140 Donations
3. 08. 150 Exemptions - Certain Supplies, Services and Equipment
3. 08. 160 City Labor Code Compliance
Section 3. 08.010 Purpose; Compliance Required
A. Compliance Required. All purchases or dispositions subject to this chapter shall
be processed and approved in accordance with the formal bidding requirements, informal bidding
requirements, or alternative bidding requirements of this chapter, as applicable.
B. Non- Compliant Actions and Contracts are Void. No obligation shall be incurred to
pay for equipment, supplies, or services unless the procedures required by this chapter have been
satisfied and followed. Any agreement for the purchase of equipment, supplies, or services made
contrary to the provisions of this chapter is void and any claim or demand against the City based
thereon is invalid. No disposition of property shall be made unless the procedures required by
this chapter have been satisfied and followed. Any attempted disposition of property in violation
of this chapter shall be null and void.
Prior Code 24. 1, 24. 2. 1; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Repealed and Enacted,
6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words are used in this chapter, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
Emergency" means an event, occurrence, or situation: ( 1) producing a great public
calamity; ( 2) creating an immediate need to prepare for national or local defense or threatened
conditions or disaster or an extreme peril to the safety of persons or property within the City; ( 3)
causing or threatening a breakdown in machinery or an essential public service or such a shortage
of equipment or supplies so as to require immediate procurement in order to safeguard the public
health, safety, or welfare; or ( 4) where following prescribed procedures would cause an undue
delay in the procurement of the needed equipment, supplies, or services and would thereby
threaten an essential, departmental operation affecting the public health, safety, or welfare.
3. 08 ( l) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Job Order Contracts" means a firm, fixed price, indefinite quantity type contract
designed to accomplish small to medium, multi- traded maintenance, repair and minor new
construction projects and shall be subject to the same rules under this chapter as applied to
public projects."
Local Business Entity" means a business that meets all of the following criteria:
1. Is a business entity which is ( a) contracting for services and has a principal place
of business located within the City, as identified on a City Business License or other official
documents; or ( b) a vendor making a sale of goods, provided that such business or entity
possesses a valid and current seller' s permit, or equivalent, issued by the State Board of
Equalization, or its successor, which identifies the City of Vista as the point of sale for all of its
taxable retail sales within the City jurisdiction; and
2. Holds a City of Vista Business License that has been in effect for at least six
months prior to the issuance of the request for bids/ proposals; and
3. Employs at least two full- time or four part-time employees whose primary
residence is located within the City of Vista; or, is at least fifty percent ( 50%) owned by one or
more persons whose primary residences are located within the City of Vista.
Lowest Monetary Bidder" means the bidder who, in response to an invitation for bids,
has submitted the bid with the lowest monetary cost to the City. When the City determines that it
is appropriate, it may consider a combination of financial factors in determining the lowest
monetary bidder, including the base bid price and the City' s reasonable estimates for
maintenance costs, insurance costs, and/ or other financial considerations. Further, the lowest
monetary bidder shall also be determined with reference to the provisions of Sections
3. 08. 040. C. 10 and 3. 08. 050. 8. 8 relating to preferences for a Local Business Entity.
Lowest Responsible Bidder" means the bidder who submits the " lowest monetary
bid" which is also " responsive" to the requirements of the invitation for bids and qualifies as a
responsible" bidder. The determination of the lowest responsible bidder (and each component
of that determination) shall be made by the Purchasing Officer for contracts that are approved
by the City Manager, and by the City Council for contracts it approves.
Public Project" means a project defined as a" public project" pursuant to Section 22002
of the California Public Contract Code, as amended from time to time.
Purchasing Officer" means the City Manager and or such person as shall be appointed
Purchasing Officer by the City Manager pursuant to this chapter. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City Council shall exercise the authority of the Purchasing Officer with respect to any final
determination involving the identification of the lowest responsible bidder for contracts presented
to the City Council for action.
Responsible Bidder" means a bidder that has demonstrated it is qualified to perform in
accordance with the requirements identified in the invitation for bids, based on the bidder' s
experience, capacity, and integrity. Factors that may be considered, include, among others: ( 1)
successful and timely completion of projects of similar scope, size, and quality; ( 2) any relevant
licenses or certifications; ( 3) available resources to perform the project, including qualified
personnel, property ( such as buildings, plants, equipment, and materials), and finances; (4)
history of relevant claims and actions; and ( 5) performance history with the City, if applicable. If
requested by the Purchasing Officer, a party which has submitted a bid shall provide supplemental
information to the Purchasing Officer to permit the Purchasing Officer to determine whether the
bidder qualifies as responsive.
Responsive" means a bid that is prepared and submitted by the bidder in accordance
with the requirements of the invitation for bids, and this chapter, with only those non- material
deviations that may be waived, in the discretion of the City, without rendering the process unfair
or negatively affecting the City' s interests.
Short Term Lease" means a lease of real property with a fixed term of no more than
one year.
3. 08 ( 2) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
State Law" means a California State Statute or implementing rule or regulation that is
legally required and constitutionally permitted to be imposed on the City concerning a matter that
is otherwise considered by the City to be a municipal affair.
Veteran-Owned Business Entity" means a business that meets all of the following
criteria:
1. Is a business entity which is at least fifty one percent (51%) owned by one or more
veterans; and
2. Holds a business license for at least 6 months prior to the issuance of the request
for bids/ proposals in ( a) the City of Vista; or ( b) one of the other Innovate 78 Corridor Economic
Development Initiative cities of Carlsbad, Escondido, Oceanside, or San Marcos, provided that
the city issuing the business license has enacted a substantially similar veterans business
preference program as determined by the City Manager; and
3. a) Is a Service- Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business ( SDVOSB) or Veteran-
Owned Small Business ( VOSB) registered with the Office of Small & Disadvantaged Business
Utilization' s Vets First Verification Program, a division of the U. S. Department of Veteran Affairs,
or ( b) is a Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise ( DVBE) certified and registered with the Office
of Small Business and DVBE Service, a division of the California Department of General Services.
Prior Code 24- 2; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 96- 12, Enacted, 6/ 25/ 96; Ord. No. 2006- 7,
Repealed and Enacted, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/07; Ord. No. 2012- 6,
Amended 5/ 25/ 12; Ord. No. 2015- 5, Amended 4/ 14/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 2, Amended 3/ 9/ 16; Ord. No. 2016-
6, Amended 4/ 22/ 16)
Section 3. 08.030 Purchasing Officer
A. Position Established. The City Manager may appoint a Purchasing Officer whose
duties may be combined with those of any other officer or position. In the absence of an
appointment to the position of Purchasing Officer, the City Manager shall serve as Purchasing
Officer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Attorney shall serve as Purchasing Officer for all
contracts for, or in support of, legal services, except such legal services contracts, if any, as may
be directly authorized and executed by the City Manager.
B. Powers and Duties. The Purchasing Officer shall:
1. Prepare and recommend to the City Manager operational procedures and
forms for the procurement of goods and/ or services in cooperation with the end users and for the
disposal of surplus property.
2. Procure or supervise the procurement of all goods and/ or services needed
by the City, in coordination with end users, in a manner consistent with the City Charter, this
chapter, rules or regulations adopted by the City Council or City Manager, and rules adopted by
the Purchasing Officer, or as otherwise required by state or federal law.
3. Process the contracts awarded administratively and/ or by the City Council.
4. Whenever possible, establish standardized specifications and
consolidation of requirements for goods and/ or services required by two or more end users.
5. Sell or otherwise dispose of surplus personal property.
6. Supervise the inspection of all supplies, services and equipment purchased
to ensure conformance with specifications.
7. Require chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and
samples of deliveries which are necessary or appropriate to determine the quality of the delivery
and its conformance with the specifications.
8. Maintain a current bidders list, vendors catalog file and records needed for
the efficient operation of the purchasing functions.
9. Obtain additional information from a bidder who has submitted a bid to
determine or assess if the bidder is a responsible bidder. If the requested information is not
provided in a complete manner or by a set date, the Purchasing Officer may characterize the
3. 08 ( 3) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
bidder as not responsible for purpose of the single bid under review.
10. Take other actions consistent with this chapter.
C. Standardization Requirements. Where the Purchasing Officer has determined and
the City Attorney concurs that significant cost savings have been demonstrated, standardization
of supplies, materials, or equipment is permitted and the specifications may limit the purchase to
a single brand or trade name. Among the factors that may be considered in determining to
standardize on a single brand or trade name are that: ( 1) repair and maintenance costs would be
minimized; ( 2) user personnel training would be facilitated thereby; ( 3) supplies or spare parts
would be minimized; ( 4) modifications to existing equipment would be minimized or may not be
necessary; ( 5) training or repair and maintenance personnel would be minimized; and/ or ( 6)
matching existing supplies, materials, or equipment is required for the proper operation, function,
or use of a function or program.
D. Inspection. The Purchasing Officer or a designated representative shall be
responsible for the inspection of supplies and equipment delivered to determine their
conformance with the specifications set forth in the order.
E. Testing. The Purchasing Officer, or a designated representative, shall have
authority to require chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with the bids and samples
of deliveries which are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with specifications.
F. Assignment of Duties of Purchasing Officer to Other Departments. The City
Manager, with approval of the City Council, may authorize in writing any agency to purchase or
contract for specified supplies, services and equipment independently of the Purchasing
Department; but he or she shall require that such purchases or contracts be made in conformity
with the procedures established by this chapter, and shall further require periodic reports from the
agency on the purchases and contracts made under such written authorization.
G. Delegations by Purchasing Officer. The Purchasing Officer, with approval of the
City Manager, may authorize, in writing, any department to purchase specified supplies, services
and equipment of estimated amounts of less than $ 15, 000 independently of the Purchasing
Department. Such purchases shall be made in conformity with the procedures established by
this chapter, and shall further require periodic reports from the agency on the purchases made
under such written authorization.
Prior Code 24- 2, 24- 3, 24- 4, 24- 5, 24- 11, 24- 13; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7,
Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08.040 Formal Bidding Procedure
A. Circumstances Where Formal Bidding is Allowed or Required.
1. Contracts for purchases of supplies, equipment or services. ( a) Purchases
with a value of $ 75,000 or less may be made using the formal bidding process if authorized by
the Purchasing Officer, in his or her discretion. ( b) Purchases with an anticipated value exceeding
75, 000 must utilize the formal bidding requirements of this section, unless this chapter authorizes
use of informal bidding or alternative bidding as provided in Sections 3. 08.050 or 3. 08. 060.
2. Public projects. ( a) Public projects with a value of $ 75,000 or less,
appropriations for which have been approved by the City Council, may be performed by the
employees of the City or its agencies by force account, or by negotiated contract or purchase
order approved by the City Manager. ( b) Public projects in excess of$ 75,000 shall be let by the
formal bidding procedures in this section unless the City Council authorizes an alternative
procedure for awarding the contract prior to the receipt of bids.
3. Rights- of-Way for Public Projects. Acquisition of rights- of-way needed for
public projects, including fee interests and temporary and permanent easements, appropriations
for which public projects have been approved by the City Council, may be negotiated and
approved by the City Manager subject to the provisions of Section 3. 08. 090, Section 2. 04. 110,
3. 08 ( 4) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
and City Council policy.
B. Award to Lowest Responsible Bidder. Unless prior to bid or the receipt of bids, the
City Council authorizes the award of the contract to someone other than the lowest responsible
bidder, a contract awarded using the formal bidding procedures of this section, shall be awarded
to the lowest responsible bidder, or the next lowest responsible bidder if the initial low bidder
refuses to execute the contract.
C. Procedural Requirements. The formal bidding procedures are as follows:
1. The Purchasing Officer shall issue a notice inviting bids using one or more
methods designed to provide reasonable public notice in a manner which will permit the bid
information to be disseminated widely. The notice shall include: ( a) instruction to bidders; ( b)
specifications describing the required supplies, goods or equipment; (c) bid forms and schedules;
d) any required bond forms; ( e) general provisions; ( f) the time on or before which bids will be
received; ( g) where and with whom bids shall be filed; and ( h) the date, time and place where and
when bids will be publicly opened.
2. Notice shall be provided to all responsible prospective suppliers or service
providers whose names are on the current bidders list or who have made a written request that
their names be added thereto. However, a failure to provide notice shall not affect the validity of
any subsequent bid award.
3. With the exception of a design- build contract for a public project, no person
with whom the City has contracted to prepare or assist in the preparation of bid or proposal
documents is eligible to submit a bid or proposal for the provision of the goods or the performance
of the services so specified in the notice inviting bids or proposals.
4. Bid responses shall be in writing, and, with the prior approval of the City
Attorney, may be transmitted to the Purchasing Officer by facsimile, by mail, electronically over
the internet, or by any other means of delivery.
5. Bids shall be kept confidential until bid opening.
6. Formal bids, timely received, will be publicly opened by the Purchasing
Officer and the bid pricing shall be read aloud and/ or recorded. Formal bids received after the
deadline for receipt of bids shall not be accepted by the City and shall be returned to the bidder
unopened, unless opening is necessary for identification purposes. The Purchasing Officer shall
submit written notification to the bidder whose bid was received after the deadline stating what
the deadline was, when the bid was actually received and that the bid is being returned because
it was received after the deadline.
7. If no bids are received or if no bids meet the requirements as specified in
the solicitation documents, the Purchasing Officer may cease the procurement.
8. If two or more bids are received with the same total bid price, the City
Council may, in its discretion, accept the bid it chooses.
9. All bids shall be deemed rejected if no City Council action is taken on the
bids or proposals within 90 days after the bids have been received and opened, unless bidders
agree to extend a bid' s effective date upon request by the City.
10. Should the bidder who submits the lowest bid not be a Local Business
Entity, then the lowest bid submitted by a Local business Entity that is within five percent of the
lowest bid may be deemed the Lowest Monetary Bidder, whether or not that bidder is the second
lowest bidder, if the Local Business Entity agrees, in writing, to reduce its bid to match the bid of
the lowest bidder within three days of the City' s request to match. Thereafter, the contract may
be awarded to that Local Business Entity if it otherwise qualifies as the Lowest Responsible
Bidder. This provision shall be inapplicable where otherwise prohibited by state or federal law or
contract.
11. Should the bidder who submits the lowest bid not be a Veteran- Owned
Business Entity, then the lowest bid submitted by a Veteran- Owned Business Entity which is
within two percent ( 2%) of the lowest bid may be deemed the Lowest Monetary Bidder, whether
3. 08 ( 5) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
or not that bidder is the second lowest bidder, if the Veteran- Owned Business Entity agrees, in
writing, to reduce its bid to match the bid of the lowest bidder within three days of the City' s request
to match. Thereafter, the contract may be awarded to the Veteran- Owned Business Entity if it
otherwise qualifies as the Lowest Responsible Bidder. This provision shall be inapplicable where
otherwise prohibited by state or federal law or contract. This preference cannot be combined with
the Local Business Enterprise preference.
D. Rejection and/ or Re- solicitation of Bids by Purchasing Officer. The Purchasing
Officer may reject any and all bids received and, in his or her discretion, re- advertise for bids,
pursuant to the procedures described in Sections 3. 08.040 through 3. 08. 060, when:
1. All bids substantially exceed the City estimate of cost for the purchase or
exceed the amount budgeted for the purchase;
2. No responsive and responsible bids were received; and/ or
3. Alternate bids have been submitted by one or more vendors making
evaluations of the bid difficult.
E. Rejection of Bids by City Council. The City Council may reject any or all bids, when
the City Council, in its absolute discretion, determines that the public interest would be served. If
the City Council rejects all bids, it may direct that the Purchasing Officer re- advertise for bids
pursuant to the procedures described in Section 3. 08.050 through 3. 08. 060.
Prior Code 24- 4, 24- 8, 24- 11; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 96- 12, Amended, 6/ 25/ 98;
Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2011-
4, Amended 8/ 23/ 11; Ord. No. 2012- 6, Amended 5/ 25/ 12; Ord. No. 2016- 6, Amended 4/ 22/ 16)
Section 3. 08.050 Informal Bidding Procedure
A. Circumstances Where Informal Bidding is Allowed or Required. The informal
bidding procedures may be used for any of the following purchases of supplies, equipment, or
services:
1. When the supplies, equipment, or services have an anticipated value of
between $ 15, 000 and $ 75,000;
2. When a prior solicitation of bids occurred using the formal bidding process,
but the solicitation yielded: ( a) no bids or no bids that were responsive and responsible; ( b) bids
which substantially exceeded the City' s estimated cost for the purchase; or ( c) alternative bids
from one or more vendors making evaluation of the bid difficult.
3. When the contract value exceeds $ 75,000 and the City Council: ( a) has
determined, by resolution, that the public interest will be served by using informal bidding for a
specified contract or a specified class of contracts; and ( b) the supplies, equipment, or services
fall within the designated class of contracts.
4. When the contract value exceeds $75, 000, and: ( a) the Purchasing Officer,
in writing, has determined that use of the formal bidding process would serve no useful purpose;
and ( b) that written determination is provided to the City Council a minimum of seven calendar
days before the contract is executed by the City Manager.
B. Procedural Requirements. The informal bidding procedures are as follows:
1. The Purchasing Officer shall solicit bids by written or oral request.
2. When reasonable, at least three bids shall be solicited.
3. Responses shall be in writing, and, if approved by the City Attorney, may
be transmitted to the Purchasing Officer by facsimile, by mail, electronically over the internet, or
by any other means of delivery.
4. Bids shall be kept confidential until bid opening.
5. The Purchasing Officer shall keep a public record of all open market
requests and bids for a period of one year after the submission of the bids or, if no bids are
3. 08 ( 6) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
received, the placing of the orders.
6. When multiple bids are received, the bid shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder.
7. All bids shall be deemed rejected if no action is taken to accept the bid or
proposal within 90 days after the bids have been received and opened, unless bidders agree to
extend a bid' s effective date upon request by the City.
8. Should the bidder who submits the lowest bid not be a Local Business
Entity, then the lowest bid submitted by a Local Business Entity that is within five percent of the
lowest bid may be deemed the Lowest Monetary Bidder, whether or not that bidder is the second
lowest bidder, if the Local Business Entity agrees, in writing, to reduce its bid to match the bid of
the lowest bidder within three days of the City' s request to match. Thereafter, the contract may
be awarded to that Local Business Entity if it otherwise qualifies as the Lowest Responsible
Bidder. This provision shall be inapplicable where otherwise prohibited by state or federal law or
contract.
9. Should the bidder who submits the lowest bid not be a Veteran- Owned
Business Entity, then the lowest bid submitted by a Veteran- Owned Business Entity which is
within two percent ( 2%) of the lowest bid may be deemed the Lowest Monetary Bidder, whether
or not that bidder is the second lowest bidder, if the Veteran- Owned Business Entity agrees, in
writing, to reduce its bid to match the bid of the lowest bidder within three days of the City' s request
to match. Thereafter, the contract may be awarded to the Veteran- Owned Business Entity if it
otherwise qualifies as the Lowest Responsible Bidder. This provision shall be inapplicable where
otherwise prohibited by state or federal law or contract. This preference cannot be combined with
the Local Business Enterprise preference.
C. Rejection of Bids by Purchasing Officer. The Purchasing Officer may reject all bids
obtained using the informal bidding procedure when:
1. The City has determined that the supplies, equipment, or services that were
solicited are no longer required;
2. The bids substantially exceeded the City's estimate of cost for the purchase
or exceeded the amount budgeted for the purchase;
3. No responsive and responsible bids are received;
4. Alternate bids have been submitted by one or more vendors making
evaluations of the bid difficult; or
5. The Purchasing Officer has determined it would serve the public interest to
reject all bids or to re- solicit bids.
Prior Code 24- 11; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007-
9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2011- 4, Amended 8/ 23/ 11; Ord. No. 2015- 5, Amended
4/ 14/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 6, Amended 4/ 22/ 16)
Section 3. 08.060 Alternative Bidding Procedure
Rather than using the formal or informal bidding procedures of this chapter, the
Purchasing Officer may solicit bids using the following alternative bidding procedures in the
circumstances set forth in the subsections below.
A. Competitive Negotiations. Competitive negotiations may be authorized for the
purchase of highly specialized services, supplies, or equipment using the competitive negotiation
procedure when: ( a) the supplies or equipment are such that suitable technical or performance
specifications are not readily available; ( b) the City is not able to develop descriptive
specifications; or ( c) the proposals for the purchase would be more advantageous to the City.
1. When the purchases are made by competitive negotiations, the best offer,
as judged against proposal evaluation criteria, shall be accepted in the event that the City, in its
discretion, determines to award a contract. When reasonably possible, at least three businesses
3. 08 ( 7) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
shall be approached as part of the competitive negotiation process. The Purchasing Officer shall
solicit a request for proposals, a request for qualifications, or other responses from those
businesses which are engaged in the competitive negotiation process.
2. Prior to selecting a service provider, the City may engage in discussions
and negotiations with the one or more parties submitting proposals to refine the proposals,
negotiate the terms of proposals, or negotiate the fees, charges or other elements of the
proposals.
3. The use of competitive negotiations is not intended to be used for the
purpose of avoiding the bidding procedures as set forth in this chapter.
B. Professional Services. A request for proposals or a request for qualifications shall
be used when the City solicits the services of attorneys, accountants, architects, engineers or
specialized consultants or professionals. When the City seeks a combination of equipment and
professional services, the Purchasing Officer, in his or her discretion, shall choose whether to use
a request for proposal process, as provided in this section, or the formal or informal procedures
as provided in this chapter.
1. Requests for proposals, or statements of qualifications, shall include the
following information: scope of work; plans and specifications, if applicable; time schedule; cost;
insurance requirements; and list of employees who will be assigned to the project, and their
qualifications.
2. Proposals will be reviewed and evaluated according to: experience and
expertise in the field; quality of consultant's work; ability of firm or consultant to meet project
deadlines; demonstrated competence necessary for the performance of the services required;
professional qualifications; overall cost of the service; and, past performance on similar projects.
3. Prior to selecting a service provider, the City may engage in discussions
and negotiations with one or more parties submitting proposals to refine the proposals, negotiate
the terms of proposals, or negotiate the fees, charges or other elements of the proposals.
4. In the event there is only one individual or firm that can provide or is
especially suited to providing the required professional service in a timely manner, the Purchasing
Officer may waive the requirements for solicitation of multiple proposals.
C. Cooperative Purchasing. The Purchasing Officer shall have the authority to join
with other public or quasi- public agencies in cooperative purchasing plans or programs for the
purchase of supplies, services and/ or equipment by contract, arrangement, or agreement as
allowed by law, provided that the Purchasing Officer determines that participation is in the City' s
best interests and the administering agency has made its purchases in a competitive manner. In
addition, the Purchasing Officer may buy directly from a vendor at a price established by another
public agency when the other public agency has made its purchase in a competitive manner.
D. Additional Quantities. Following the execution of a contract or purchase order for
supplies, materials, or equipment, the Purchasing Officer may purchase additional quantities at
the quoted price, if such an option for additional quantities is offered by vendor and an
unencumbered balance of an allocated appropriation is available.
E. Emergencies. In an emergency, the City Manager may use the alternative bidding
procedure set forth in this paragraph. Procurements using this procedure shall be limited to
goods, services or public projects that are of an urgent nature, directly and immediately required
due to the emergency. No individual procurement using this procedure shall exceed $ 250, 000.
The City Manager shall use his or her best efforts to secure the lowest possible price for goods
or services that satisfies the City' s needs for quality and timely delivery. Promptly following the
approval of the purchase, the City Manager shall prepare a signed certificate identifying the
emergency and the need for the goods or services. The certificate shall be delivered to the City
Council.
Prior Code 24- 12. 1, 24- 12. 2, 24- 15; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended,
6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
3. 08 ( 8) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 08.065 Prequalification of Contractors and Subcontractors
A. Prequalification. The City may establish a prequalification process for prospective
contractors and subcontractors on public works projects that require highly technical and
specialized expertise or equipment, or when the City deems it necessary to examine the financial
resources and ability of the prospective bidder to perform in accordance with a strict project
schedule.
B. Prequalification may be limited to consideration of all or any of the following
materials supplied by prospective bidders:
1. Possession of all required licenses, registrations and credentials in good
standing that are required to construct the project.
2. Submission of documentation establishing that the prospective bidder has
completed, or demonstrated the capability to complete, projects of similar size, scope, type or
complexity, and that proposed key personnel have sufficient experience and training to
competently manage and complete the construction of the project. This may include a
requirement for references for similar construction projects completed.
3. Submission of evidence establishing that the prospective bidder has the
capacity to obtain required payment and performance bonding, liability insurance, as well as a
financial statement assuring the City that the prospective bidder has the capacity to complete the
project.
4. Responses to questions about whether any surety company made
payment on the prospective bidder' s behalf as a result of default, to satisfy any claims made
against a payment or performance bond issued on the prospective bidder' s behalf, in connection
with a construction project.
5. Responses to questions about criminal matters and related civil suits
regarding being found liable in a civil suit or found guilty in a criminal action for making a false
claim or material representation to any federal, state, or local agency or entity. In addition,
responses to questions about whether the prospective bidder has been convicted of a crime
involving any federal, state or local law relating to construction.
6. Responses to questions about whether the prospective bidder has been
assessed liquidated damages exceeding $ 50,000 on a construction project and whether an owner
has filed a claim against the prospective bidder concerning work on a construction project.
7. Responses to questions about whether the prospective bidder has made
any claim in excess of$ 50, 000 against a project owner concerning work on a project or payment
for a contract and filed that claim in court or arbitration.
8. Responses to questions about whether the prospective bidder has ever
been denied award of a public works contract by a public agency based on the finding that they
were not a responsible bidder.
9. Responses to questions about whether EPA, any Air Quality Management
District or any Regional Water Quality Control Board cited and assessed penalties against the
prospective bidder or the owner of a project during the time in which the prospective bidder was
performing work on a contract.
10. Responses to questions about whether CAL OSHA cited and assessed
penalties against the prospective bidder for any " serious", " willful" or " repeat" violations of its
safety or health violations.
C. The City may require that information required pursuant to this subdivision shall be
verified under oath by the prospective bidder in the manner in which civil proceedings in civil
actions are verified. Information that is not a public record pursuant to the California Public
Records Act [Chapter 3. 5 ( commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 Title 1 of the Government
Code] shall not be open to public inspection.
3. 08 ( 9) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
D. The prequalification process shall be pass/ fail. Prospective bidders that meet the
minimum requirements shall pass and therefore be qualified to bid on the proposed public works
project. Prospective bidders that do not meet the minimum requirements shall fail and not be
permitted to submit a bid on the proposed public works project.
E. The use of a prequalification process and the scope of the prequalification criteria
shall be approved by the City Manager. The prequalification criteria and process shall be set forth
in full in the bid documents.
Ord. No. 2014- 19, Added 8/ 26/ 14)
Section 3. 08.070 Post- Bid Negotiations
To obtain better value for the City, the purchasing agent may engage in negotiations with
a bidder who qualifies as the lowest responsible bidder to obtain price reductions or contract
enhancements. If such price reductions or contract enhancements are negotiated, the contract
to be executed will be drafted to include such reductions or enhancements. In addition, the City,
after receiving proposals for work that are not governed solely by price, may negotiate with the
bidders regarding the particular terms of the contract prior to selecting or contracting with a bidder.
Former Section 3. 08.070, Repealed; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Enacted,
6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08.075 Design- Build Contracts
A. Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide definitions and
guidelines for the use, evaluation and award of design- build contracts.
B. Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Design- build" means a procurement contract method in which both the design
and construction of a construction project are procured from a single entity pursuant to a
competitive negotiation process.
Design-build entity" means a natural person, partnership, joint venture,
corporation, business association or other legal entity that is able to provide appropriately licensed
contracting, architectural, and engineering services for a public works project under a design- build
agreement.
Design-build entity members" includes any person who provides licensed
contracting, architectural, or engineering services.
C. Design- build procurement. The City may enter into design- build procurement
contracts subject to the prior approval of the City Manager or the City Council as provided in
Section 3. 08. 040. A.2. For purposes of this section only, prior to procuring a design- build contract,
the City shall prepare a request for proposal setting forth the scope of the project that may include,
but is not limited to, the size, type, and desired design character of the buildings, structures, and
site, and performance specifications. The performance specifications shall describe the quality of
materials, equipment, and workmanship, preliminary plans or building layouts and other
information deemed necessary to adequately describe the City' s needs. The performance
specifications shall be prepared or reviewed and approved by a design professional that is duly
licensed and registered in California or by an City- authorized employee.
D. Competitive prequalification and selection process. The City may establish a
competitive prequalification and selection process for design- build entities that specifies the
prequalification criteria, as well as recommends the manner in which the winning entity will be
selected.
E. Prequalification criteria. Prequalification may be limited to consideration of all or
any of the following criteria supplied by a design- build entity:
1. Possession of all required licenses, registration, and credentials in good
standing that are required to design and construct the project.
2. Submission of documentation establishing that the design- build entity
3. 08 ( 10) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
members have completed, or demonstrated the capability to complete, projects of similar size,
scope building type, or complexity, and that proposed key personnel have sufficient experience
and training to competently manage and complete the design and construction of the project.
3. If the design- build entity is a partnership, limited partnership, joint venture
or other association, a listing of all of the partners, general partners, or association members
known at the time of bid submission who will participate in the design- build contract.
4. Submission of a proposed project management plan establishing that the
design- build entity has the experience, competence, and capacity needed to effectively complete
the project.
5. Submission of evidence establishing that the design- build entity has the
capacity to obtain all required payment and performance bonding, liability insurance, and errors
and omission insurance, as well as a financial statement assuring the City that the design- build
entity has the capacity to complete the project.
6. The City may require that information required pursuant to this subdivision
shall be verified under oath by the design- build entity and its members in the manner in which
civil proceedings in civil actions are verified. Information that is not a public record pursuant to the
California Public Records Act [ Chapter 3. 5 ( commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title
1 of the Government Code] shall not be open to public inspection.
F. Selection method. The awarding authority shall select one of the following methods
as the process to be used for the selection of the winning design- build entity:
1. A design- build competition based on performance, specifications, and
criteria set forth by the awarding authority in the request for proposals.
a. Criteria used in this form of evaluation of proposals may include,
but not be limited to, items such as proposed design approach, initial and/ or life-cycle costs,
project features, financing, quality, capacity, schedule, and operational and functional
performance of the facility. However, any criteria and methods used to evaluate proposals shall
be limited to those contained in the request for design- build proposals.
b. Award shall be made to the design- build entity on the basis of the
technical criteria and methodology, including price, whose proposal is judged as providing the
best value in meeting the interests of the City and meeting the objectives of the project.
2. A design- build competition based on program requirements, performance
specifications, and a preliminary design or combination thereof set forth by the City in the request
for proposals. Limited drawings and specifications detailing the requirements of the project may
accompany the request for proposals.
a. The City shall establish technical criteria and methodology,
including price, to evaluate proposals and shall describe the criteria and methodology of
evaluation and selection in the request for design- build proposals.
b. Award shall be made to the design- build entity on the basis of
technical criteria and methodology, including price, whose proposal is judged as providing the
best value in meeting the interest of the City and meeting the objectives of the project.
3. A design- build competition based on program requirements and a detailed
scope of work, including any preliminary design drawings and specifications set forth by the
awarding authority in the request for proposals.
a. Award shall be made on the basis of the lowest responsible and
reliable bid.
4. References to " price" in this subsection shall not preclude selection
procedures whereby preliminary and final project price or value-engineering scope and price
changes may be negotiated subsequent to the selection of the design- build entity.
G. Work listing. The City may establish a process for the selection and award of
subcontractors by the design- build entity in its contract documents.
H. Except as provided below, any architectural firms, engineering firms, specialty
3. 08 ( 11) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
consultants, or individuals retained by the City to assist in the preparation of the preliminary design
or request for proposals shall not be eligible to participate in the competition with any design- build
entity. The City, however, reserves the right to require as a condition of awarding a contract to
the successful design- build entity under the RFP, that the design build- entity accept assignment
of the agreement between the City and any architectural firm, engineering firm, specialty
consultant or individual( s) retained by the City in the preparation of preliminary design or request
for proposal. Design- build entity shall not terminate such assigned agreement with the
architectural firm, engineering firm, specialty consultant or individual( s) without the express written
approval of the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld."
Ord. No. 2011- 4, Added 8/ 23/ 11)
Section 3. 08.080 Purchase Order and Requisition Process
All purchases of supplies, equipment, services and public projects shall comply with the
following rules relating to appropriations, purchase orders, and requisitions.
A. Purchase Orders. Purchases of equipment, supplies, services or public project
shall be made only in accordance with this chapter and applicable City policies and guidelines.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no purchase order shall be issued unless the prior
approval of the Purchasing Officer or a designated representative has been obtained.
B. Unencumbered Funds. Except in cases of emergency, or in cases where specific
authority has been first obtained from the City Council, the Purchasing Officer shall not issue any
purchase order for supplies, services or equipment unless there exists an unencumbered
appropriation in the fund account against which such purchase is to be charged.
Prior Code 24- 8, 24- 9, Former Section 3. 08.080, Repealed; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No.
2006- 7, Enacted, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08.090 Award and Execution of Contracts
A. Purchase Contracts Executed and Approved by City Council. Except in
emergency situations pursuant to Section 3. 08. 060. E and situations involving applicant-funded
environmental assessments under Section 15. 04. 40. D, all contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, short term leases, and public projects with an estimated value in excess of $75, 000
shall be awarded by the City Council.
B. Purchase Contracts Executed by City Manager. Contracts for supplies, services,
equipment, short term leases, and public projects with an estimated value of$ 75,000 or less, and
contracts authorized by Sections 3. 08.060. E or 15. 04.40 shall be executed by the City Manager.
C. Contracts Executed by City Attorney. The City Attorney may execute contracts of
up to $ 75,000 when the contract is for, or is in support of, legal services.
D. Notice of Award; Satisfaction of Post- Bid Requirements. After the City makes a
determination to award a contract in accordance with this chapter, the City shall issue a written
notice of award of contract to the contracting party. Within the time specified in the notice of
award, the bidder shall submit to the City all of the documents required by the invitation for bids
if any are identified, such as signed contract documents, insurance, or performance security). If
no time is specified in the notice of award, the bidder shall submit all required documents within
ten calendar days after the date of the notice of award.
E. Award to Next Lowest Bidder. In the event that the bidder awarded the contract
does not properly and timely execute and submit all of the documents required by the invitation
for bids, the City may void the previous award of contract, and award the contract to the next
eligible bidder. This process may continue until the City awards the contract to bidder who
complies with this section.
3. 08 ( 12) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 24- 16, Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 98- 13, Amended, 12/ 8/ 98; Ord. No. 2002-
28, Amended, 1/ 14/ 03; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced,
6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2016- 2, Amended 3/ 9/ 16)
Section 3. 08. 100 Modifications of Awarded Contracts
A. Contracts Originally Approved by the City Council. Contracts originally approved
by the City Council may be modified or amended in writing under either of the following
circumstances:
1. The City Manager is authorized to approve written contract amendments
or written change orders when: ( a) the value of the amendments or change orders, in aggregate,
do not exceed the greater of$ 25,000 or ten percent of the aggregate value of the original contract;
and ( b) the contract amendment or change order is executed by contractor and the City Manager.
2. The City is authorized to approve written amendments or written change
orders in amounts greater than provided in Subparagraph 1, when all of the following apply: ( 1)
the City Council, by a resolution or the terms of the contract, authorized the City Manager to
execute amendments or modifications with a value that at least equals the amount of the value of
the change order or modification; and ( 2) such authorization extends to the subject matter of the
proposed amendment or change order.
3. The City Attorney may act instead of the City Manager under this section
when the contract is for, or is in support of, legal services.
B. Contracts Originally Approved by the City Manager. The City Manager may
approve amendments to contracts that the City Manager approved pursuant to Section
3. 08. 090. 13 unless the amendment causes the aggregated value of the contract to exceed
100, 000.
C. Preconditions to Amendments. No contract amendment shall be approved under
this section unless: ( 1) funds have been appropriated by the City Council which are available for
any additional expenses created by the contract amendment; ( 2) the amendment is executed by
the contractor and the City Manager; (3) no terms in the original agreement are altered or modified
other than as set forth in the amendment; and ( 4) the amendment represents a modification to
the original scope of work, rather than an award of new work that is properly subject to a separate
bid process.
D. Void Actions. No contract amendments or change orders shall be allowed except
as permitted by this section. Any contract modification or change order approved in violation of
this section shall be null and void. No payment shall be allowed for any supplies, equipment,
property, services, or work unless performed under a contract, contract amendment, or change
order approved and executed as provided in this chapter.
Prior Code 24- 16. 1, 24- 16. 3; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 98- 13, Amended, 12/ 8/ 98; Ord.
No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08. 110 Bidder' s Security
A. The City shall have the authority to require a bid bond, performance bond or other
security in such amount as it finds reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the City
consistent with applicable law. If the City requires a performance bond or other security, the
amount of the bond shall be described in the notice inviting bids.
B. Any bond or other security required as part of a bid shall be forfeited upon the
failure of a bidder to execute the contract within ten days after the notice of award of contract has
been mailed, unless the City is solely responsible for the delay in executing the contract.
C. The amount of security forfeited shall be an amount equal to the difference
between the bid amount of the bidder that has been notified of the award and the next lowest
responsible bidder. However, the full amount of the security shall be forfeited if: ( 1) the amount
3. 08 ( 13) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
representing the difference between the bids equals or exceeds the value of security; or (2) there
is no responsible bidder other than the bidder or bidders that have already forfeited their bond or
bonds.
D. A bond or security shall be returned or released when the bidder executes the
contract subject to the security, or when the City has finally and fully rejected the bid subject to
the security.
E. Nothing in this section shall prevent the City from: ( 1) awarding a contact to the
second lowest responsible bidder after the lowest responsible bidder fails to execute the contract;
2) taking the security of the second lowest bidder or other low bidder that refuses to sign a
contract within ten days after notice of award of contract has been mailed; or ( 3) rejecting the
remaining bids after the lowest responsible bidder or bidders fails to execute a contract.
Prior Code 24- 11; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007-
9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.08. 120 Calculation of Dollar Amounts
For each contract, the dollar limits identified in this chapter ( for both the authority of the
City Manager and the method of contract solicitation) shall be the greater of: ( 1) the total dollar
amount of the City' s commitment to pay a contractor; (2) the total dollar amount of a contractor's
commitment to pay the City; or( 3) the estimated fair market value of property subject to acquisition
or disposal. For the purpose of determining dollar limits pursuant to this chapter, a " commitment"
to pay includes the amount designated in a contract as a" not to exceed," amount or an estimated
payment amount, even though the City' s actual contractual obligation is based on actual hours
performed at an hourly rate. The City will not split or separate into smaller contracts, any contract
for the purpose of evading the dollar amounts identified in this chapter.
Prior Code 24- 10; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Enacted, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No. 2007-
9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08. 130 City Dispositions of Surplus Equipment and Supplies
A. Identification of Surplus Supplies and Equipment. All using agencies shall submit
to the Purchasing Officer, at such times and in such form as he prescribes, reports showing all
supplies and equipment which are no longer used or which have become obsolete or worn out.
B. Disposition of Surplus Supplies and Equipment. The Purchasing Officer shall have
authority to sell all supplies and equipment which cannot be used by any agency, or which have
become unsuitable for City use, or to exchange the same for, or trade in the same on, new
supplies and equipment.
C. Worthless Property. In the case of scrap, supplies, or items having no estimated
or appraised value, and which have not been desired by any civic or social organization, the
Purchasing Officer may dispose of such items in any manner the Purchasing Officer deems
appropriate, keeping full records of such dispositions.
Prior Code 24- 14; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No.
2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08. 140 Donations
A. Donations of Property; City as Donor. Supplies, materials and equipment with an
estimated value of$ 10, 000 or less, may be donated or sold by the City for less than fair market
value to local civic organizations or for charitable purposes which provide a benefit to persons
within the Vista region. Authorization for the sale or donation may be provided by the City
Manager when the City Manager determines that such a disposition would best serve the City's
interests. Such donations or the discounted sale of items valued in excess of $ 10, 000 must be
3. 08 ( 14) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
approved by resolution of the City Council.
B. Donations of Property; City as Recipient. The City Manager, on behalf of the City,
may accept donations of personal property with a value of up to $ 25,000. Donations of personal
property with a larger value shall be accepted by the City Council. All donations of personal
property shall be evidenced by a document signed by a person authorized to make the donation,
and where required, a contract. Donations shall only be accepted in a manner consistent with
any applicable laws and any applicable policies adopted by the City Council. Donations of real
property shall be considered and accepted by the City Council in accordance with California law.
Prior Code 24- 14; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Enacted, 6/ 13/ 06; Ord. No.
2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3. 08. 150 Exemptions - Certain Supplies, Services and Equipment
Contracts for supplies, services, equipment, and public projects may be approved without
complying with the bidding process of this chapter when the contract is for any of the following:
A. Utility services and related charges.
B. Contracts for governmental or proprietary services provided by another
governmental entity or quasi- public entity.
C. Real property purchases, leases, and related title and escrow fees.
D. Transportation and freight charges when not specifically indicated on a purchase
order.
E. Insurance and bond premiums.
F. Advertisements in newspapers or other periodicals.
G. Works of art.
H. Professional service contracts ( e. g., environmental consultants, outside legal
services) which are completely funded by private development applicants.
I. Purchases of books, periodicals, newspapers, trade journals and other
publications.
J. Purchases of gasoline, oil, or other automobile care products in connection with
the immediate use or emergency repair of City vehicles.
K. Purchase of used equipment, which in the opinion of the City Manager, is
satisfactory for the work of the City.
L. Membership dues in professional organizations, conventions, training, travel
arrangements, including hotels, car rentals, and air fare.
M. When the estimated value of the supplies, services or equipment purchased is less
than $ 15, 000; or in the case of a public project the estimated value of the public project is $ 75,000
or less.
N. When the commodity or service can be obtained from only one vendor.
O. When services are involved which will be performed entirely by City forces.
P. When the City Manager, after consultation with the City Attorney, determines in
writing that special circumstances would cause the implementation of the informal or formal
bidding process infeasible, impractical, or otherwise not in the best interest of the City. The basis
for the City Manager's determination shall be set forth in a certificate executed by the City
Manager and shall be a public record.
Q. When the City has solicited bids in accordance with this chapter without getting
any qualified responses and determines that the services, equipment, or supplies are still needed.
R. When the City Council, by a four-fifths vote, finds that the City' s interests will be
served by waiving the requirements of this chapter for an individual contract;
S. When the award of contract involves a public project as defined in this chapter.
T. When a specialized bidding process is required by applicable state or federal law
and the City abides by that bidding process.
3. 08 ( 15) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 24- 10, 24- 17, 24- 18; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2006- 7, Amended, 6/ 13/ 06;
Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2011- 4, Amended 8/ 23/ 11)
Section 3. 08. 160 City Labor Code Compliance
A. Repealed.
B. California Labor Code Compliance. The City shall comply with the provisions of
Article 2, Chapter 1, Part 7, Division 2 of the California Labor Code, in compliance with Labor
Code Section 1782.
C. Repealed.
Prior Code 24- 14; Ord. No. 88- 16, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Added, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2014-
22, Amended, 8/ 23/ 16)
3. 08 ( 16) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 12
Warrants
Sections:
3. 12.010 General Procedure - Statutory Authority
3. 12.020 Contents of Claims
3. 12.030 Review and Action by City Council
3. 12.040 Execution of Warrants
3. 12.050 Payment of Warrants
3. 12.060 Disapproval of Warrants
3. 12.070 Recordkeeping and Payment Procedures
3. 12.080 Conditions for Filing Suit
3. 12.090 Alternate Procedure for Payment of Claims
Section 3. 12. 010 General Procedure - Statutory Authority
Prior Code 10- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2002- 15, Repealed, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 3. 12. 020 Contents of Claims
Prior Code 10- 3; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2002- 15, Repealed, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 3. 12. 030 Review and Action by City Council
Prior Code 10- 4; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2002- 15, Repealed, 04/ 23/ 02)
Section 3. 12. 040 Execution of Warrants
A. If any claim or demand is approved and allowed by the City Council, the Mayor
shall draw a warrant upon the City treasury for the same, which warrant shall be countersigned
by the Director of Finance, or his authorized representative, and shall specify for what purpose
the same is drawn and out of what fund it is to be paid.
B. Except as otherwise provided, no warrant shall be drawn or evidence of
indebtedness issued unless there is at the time sufficient money in the treasury legally
applicable to the payment of the same.
Prior Code 10- 5; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71 )
Section 3. 12. 050 Payment of Warrants
Upon presentation of a warrant pursuant to this chapter, properly executed and
endorsed, the City Treasurer shall pay the same out of the funds in the City treasury properly
applicable to that purpose.
Prior Code 10- 7; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 3. 12. 060 Disapproval of Warrants
When an order or demand is not approved for want of funds and its amount does not
exceed the income and revenue for the year in which the indebtedness was incurred, the
3. 12 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Director of Finance shall endorse on it, " Not approved for want of funds" with the date of
presentation and his signature.
Prior Code 10- 7; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 71- 29, Amended 10/ 12/ 71)
Section 3. 12. 070 Recordkeeping and Payment Procedures
A. The Director of Finance shall number the endorsement, register the order or
demand in his records and deliver it to the claimant, or his order.
B. From delivery, the order or demand bears interest at six percent a year.
C. Orders or demands shall be paid in the order they are registered.
Prior Code 10- 8; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63)
Section 3. 12. 080 Conditions for Filing Suit
Prior Code 10- 8; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 2002- 15, Repealed, 05/ 23/ 02)
Section 3. 12. 090 Alternate Procedure for Payment of Claims
Pursuant to Article 11, Chapter 4, Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Government
Code, commencing with Section 53910 thereof, notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter,
the City Council may, by resolution, authorize such practices with respect to the form, issuance,
delivery, endorsement and payment of warrants of the City as it deems convenient, efficient,
and in the public interest. In addition to other practices, the City Council may determine, with
respect to use of check-warrant forms, approval of claims for payment as authority for payment
by check, and direction to the City depository with respect to payment of warrants, such
authorization shall conform substantially to those practices specified in said Article II.
Ord. No. 95- 9, Enacted, 08/ 08/ 95)
3. 12 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 16
Real Property Transfer Tax
Sections:
3. 16.010 Title of Provisions - Statutory Authority
3. 16.020 Tax Imposed - Rate
3. 16.030 Payment of Tax
3. 16.040 Exemptions - Instruments Securing Debts
3. 16.050 Exemptions - Instruments Taken in Lieu of Foreclosure
3. 16.060 Exemptions - Marital Property
3. 16.070 Exemptions - Conveyance by Governmental Entity and Reconveyance to
Exempt Public Agency
3. 16.080 Exemptions - Certain Conveyance of Governmental Entity to Nonprofit
Corporation
3. 16.090 Exemptions - Documents of Public Agencies
3. 16. 100 Exemptions - Plans of Reorganization or Adjustment
3. 16. 110 Exemptions - Partnerships
3. 16. 120 Exemptions - Orders of Securities and Exchange Commission
3. 16. 130 Administration of Provisions
3. 16. 140 Claims for Refunds
3. 16. 150 Operative Date
Section 3. 16. 010 Title of Provisions - Statutory Authority
This chapter shall be known as the " Real Property Transfer Tax Ordinance of the City of
Vista." It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6. 7 ( commencing with Section
11901) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.
Prior Code 29- 30; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16.020 Tax Imposed - Rate
There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands, tenements or
other realty sold within the City shall be granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed
to, or vested in the purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their
direction, when the consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed ( exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale) exceeds $ 100, a tax at
the rate of 27. 5 for each $ 500 or fractional part thereof.
Prior Code 29- 31; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 030 Payment of Tax
The tax imposed pursuant to Section 3. 16.020 shall be paid by any person who makes,
signs or issues any document or instrument subject to the tax or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed or issued.
Prior Code 29- 32; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 040 Exemptions - Instruments Securing Debts
A. The tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt. Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply with
3. 16 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
respect to any deed, instruments or writing to a beneficiary or mortgagee, which is taken from
the mortgagor or trustor as a result of or in lieu of foreclosure; provided, that such tax shall apply
to the extent that the consideration exceeds the unpaid debts, including accrued interest and
cost of foreclosure.
B. Consideration, unpaid debt amount and identification of grantee as beneficiary or
a mortgagee shall be noted on such deed, instrument or writing or stated in an affidavit or
declaration under penalty of perjury for tax purposes.
Prior Code 29- 33; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 75- 18, Amended 4/ 28/ 75; Ord. No. 90-
17, Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
Section 3. 16. 050 Exemptions - Instruments Taken in Lieu of Foreclosure
A. Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply with respect to any
deed, instrument or writing to a beneficiary or mortgagee, which is taken from the mortgagor or
trustor as a result of or in lieu of foreclosure; provided, that such tax shall apply to the extent
that the consideration exceeds the unpaid debt, including accrued interest and cost of
foreclosure.
B. Consideration, unpaid debt amount and identification of grantee as beneficiary or
mortgagee shall be noted on such deed, instrument or writing or stated in an affidavit or
declaration under penalty of perjury for tax purposes.
Prior Code 29- 33; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 75- 18, Amended 4/ 28/ 75; Ord. No. 90-
17, Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
Section 3. 16. 060 Exemptions - Marital Property
A. Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply with respect to any
deed, instrument or other writing which purports to transfer, divide or allocate community, quasicommunity
or quasi- marital property assets between spouses for the purpose of effecting a
division of community, quasi- community or quasi- marital property which is required by a judgment
decreed a dissolution of the marriage or legal separation, by a judgment annuity or by any other
judgment or order rendered pursuant to Part 5, commencing with Section 4000, of Division 4 of
the Civil Code, or by a written agreement between the spouses, executed in contemplation of
any such judgment or order, whether or not the written agreement is incorporated as part of any
of those judgments or orders.
B. In order to qualify for the exemption provided in Subsection A of this section, the
deed, instrument or other writing shall include a written recital, signed by either spouse, stating
that the deed, instrument or other writing is entitled to the exemption.
Prior Code 29- 33; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 75- 18, Amended 4/ 28/ 75; Ord. No. 90- 17,
Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
Section 3. 16. 070 Exemptions - Conveyance by Governmental Entity and
Reconveyance to Exempt Public Agency
Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply with respect to any deed,
instrument or other writing by which realty is conveyed by the state, any political subdivision
thereof, or agency or instrumentality of either thereof, pursuant to an agreement whereby the
purchaser agrees to immediately reconvey the realty to the exempt agency.
Prior Code 29- 33; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 75- 18, Amended 4/ 28/ 75; Ord. No. 90- 17,
Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
3. 16 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 16. 080 Exemptions - Certain Conveyances of Governmental Entity to
Nonprofit Corporation
Any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply with respect to any deed,
instrument or other writing by which the state, any political subdivision thereof, or agency or
instrumentality of either thereof, conveys to a nonprofit corporation realty the acquisition,
construction or improvement of which was financed or refinanced by obligations issued by the
nonprofit corporation on behalf of a governmental unit, within the meaning of Section 1. 103- 1( b)
of Title 26 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Prior Code 29- 33; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 75- 18, Amended 4/ 28/ 75; Ord. No. 90- 17,
Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
Section 3. 16. 090 Exemptions - Documents of Public Agencies
Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political subdivision thereof, is a party shall be
exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this chapter when the exempt agency is acquiring title.
Prior Code 29- 34; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 05/ 29/ 90)
Section 3. 16. 100 Exemptions - Plans of Reorganization or Adjustment
A. The tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making, delivering
or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of reorganization or adjustment:
1. Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
2. Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in Subdivision ( m) of Section 205 of Title 11 of the United States
Code, as amended;
3. Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in Subdivision ( 3) of Section 506 of Title II of the United States Code, as
amended; or
4. Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of organization is
affected.
B. Subdivisions 1 to 4, inclusive, of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs within five years from the date
of such confirmation, approval or change.
Prior Code 29- 35 Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 110 Exemptions - Partnerships
A. In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be imposed pursuant
to this chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a partnership or otherwise, if:
1. Such partnership, or another partnership, is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954; and
2. Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
B. If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this chapter, such partnership shall be treated
as having executed an instrument whereby there was conveyed, for fair market value, exclusive
of the value of any lien or encumbrance remaining thereon, all realty held by such partnership at
the time of such termination.
3. 16 ( 3) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this chapter by reason of a
termination described in Subdivision B of this section, and any transfer pursuant thereto, with
respect to the realty held by such partnership at the time of such termination.
Prior Code 29- 36; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 120 Exemptions - Orders of Securities and Exchange Commission
The tax imposed pursuant to this chapter shall not apply to the making or delivery of
conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, as
defined in Subdivision ( a) of Section 1083 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, but only if:
A. The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to which
such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of Section 79k of Title 15 of the United States Code, relating to the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
B. Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed; and
C. Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.
Prior Code 29- 37; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 130 Administration of Provisions
The County Recorder shall administer this chapter in conformity with the provisions of
Part 6.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and the provisions of any county
ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
Prior Code 29- 38; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 140 Claims for Refunds
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be governed by the
provisions of Chapter 5, commencing with Section 5096, of Part 9 of Division 1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the state.
Prior Code 29- 39; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
Section 3. 16. 150 Operative Date
This chapter shall become operative upon the operative date of any ordinance adopted
by the county, pursuant to Part 6.7, commencing with Section 11901, of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the state, or upon the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, whichever is the later.
Prior Code 29-40; Ord. No. 67- 37, Amended 1/ 16/ 68)
3. 16 ( 4) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 20
Sales and Use Tax
Sections:
3. 20. 010 Title of Provisions
3. 20. 020 Tax Imposed - Rate
3. 20. 030 Operative Date
3. 20. 040 Purpose of Provisions - Statutory Authority
3. 20. 050 Contract with State to Perform Duties
3. 20. 060 Sales Tax
3. 20. 070 Place of Sale
3. 20. 080 Use Tax
3. 20. 090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law
3. 20. 100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law
3. 20. 110 Additional Seller' s Permit Not Required When
3. 20. 120 Exclusions and Exemptions
3. 20. 130 Amendments to Statutory Provisions
3. 20. 140 Enjoining Collection Prohibited
3. 20. 150 Violation - Penalty
Section 3. 20.010 Title of Provisions
This chapter shall be known as the " Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Ordinance."
Prior Code 29- 2. 1; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.020 Tax Imposed- Rate
The rate of sales tax and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be one percent.
Prior Code 29- 2. 2; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.030 Operative Date
This chapter shall be operative on January 1, 1974.
Prior Code 29- 2. 3; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.040 Purpose of Provisions - Statutory Authority
The City Council declares that this chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among
other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:
A. To adopt a sales and use tax chapter which complies with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
B. To adopt a sales and use tax chapter which incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
3. 20 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. To adopt a sales and use tax chapter which imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the state sales and use taxes.
D. To adopt a sales and use tax chapter which can be administered in a manner
that will, to the degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting City sales and use taxes and at
the same time minimize the burden of recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 29- 2. 4; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.050 Contract with State to Perform Duties
Prior to the operative date, this City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this sales and use tax
chapter; provided, that if this City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract
rather than the first day of the first calendar quarter following the adoption of this chapter.
Prior Code 29- 2. 5; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.060 Sales Tax
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all
retailers in the City at the rate stated in Section 3. 20.020 of the gross receipts of the retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in this City on and after the operative
date.
Prior Code 29- 2. 6; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.070 Place of Sale
A. For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.
B. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.
Prior Code 29. 2- 7; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20.080 Use Tax
An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date for storage, use or
other consumption in this City at the rate stated in Section 3. 20. 020 of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
Prior Code 29- 2. 8; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
3. 20 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 20.090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein.
Prior Code 29- 2. 9; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20. 100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law
A. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, wherever the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City
shall be substituted therefore.
B. 1. The substitution, however, shall not be made when the word " State" is
used as part of the title of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the
State Board of Equalization, the State Treasury or the Constitution of the State of California;
2. The substitution shall not be made when the result of that substitution
would require action to be taken by or against the City, or any agency thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this chapter;
3. The substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but not
necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provisions of that code;
4. The substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 ( except in the
last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; and
5. The substitution shall not be made for the word " state" in the phrase
retailer engaged in business in this state" in Section 6203 or in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.
Prior Code 29- 2. 10; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20. 110 Additional Seller's Permit Not Required When
If a seller' s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not be required by this chapter.
Prior Code 29- 2. 11; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3. 20. 120 Exclusions and Exemptions
A. The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax imposed by the
state upon a retailer or consumer.
B. The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, the gross
receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a sales and use tax ordinance
enacted in accordance with Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city
or county in this state, shall be exempt from the tax due under this chapter.
3. 20 ( 3) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax the
gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the city in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in
the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this state, the United States or any foreign government.
D. In addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366. 1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this state, the United States or any foreign government, is exempted from the use tax.
Prior Code 29- 2. 13; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73; Ord. No. 83- 71, Amended 12/ 13/ 83)
Section 3. 20. 130 Amendments to Statutory Provisions
All subsequent amendments of the Revenue and Taxation Code which relate to the
sales and use tax and which are not inconsistent with Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this chapter.
Prior Code 29- 2. 15; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3.20. 140 Enjoining Collection Prohibited
No injunction or writ of mandate of other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the state or this City, or against any officer of the state or
this City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this article, or Part 1. 5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
Prior Code 29- 2. 16; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
Section 3.20. 150 Violation- Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of
Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 29- 2. 17; Ord. No. 73- 43, Enacted 10/ 30/ 73)
3. 20 ( 4) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.24
Transient Occupancy Tax
Sections:
3. 24.010 Definitions
3. 24.020 Tax Rate Established - Payment by Transient
3. 24.030 Exemptions from Tax
3. 24.040 Registration of Operators
3. 24.050 Collection of Tax by Operators
3. 24.060 Reports and Remittances Due When
3. 24.070 Delinquent Payments - Unlawful Procedures - Penalty
3. 24.080 Failure to Collect Tax - Assessment by Tax Administrator
3. 24.090 Appeal Procedure
3. 24. 100 Tax Deemed Debt to City - Recovery by Court Action
3. 24. 110 Recordkeeping Requirements
3. 24. 120 Refund of Taxes
3. 24. 130 Unlawful Activities Designated
Section 3. 24.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes,
including any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging
house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or
house trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.
Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.
Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other capacity. Where the
operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or character other than
an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purposes of this
chapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise,
including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Tax Administrator" means the City Clerk-Treasurer.*
Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period of 30
consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such
person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of 30
days has expired, unless there is an agreement, in writing, between the operator and the
occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a person is a
transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent to June 29, 1964,
may be considered.
3. 24 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Editor's Note: The duties of the City Treasurer were transferred to the Director of Finance by
Ord. 69- 52, included as Chapter 2. 24 of this code.
Prior Code 29- 11; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.020 Tax Rate Established - Payment by Transient
A. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient shall pay a tax,
effective immediately upon the effective date of the latest amendment to this section, equal to
ten percent times the rent charged by the operator.
B. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City, which is
extinguished only by payment of the tax to the operator or to the City.
C. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is
paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Administrator
may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.
Prior Code 29- 12; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64; Ord. No. 72- 31, Amended 8/ 14/ 72; Ord. no. 87- 13,
Amended 4/ 27/ 87; Ord. No. 87- 24, Amended 7/ 13/ 87; Ord. No. 90-42, Amended, 11/ 06/ 90 Election)
Section 3. 24.030 Exemptions from Tax
A. No tax under this chapter shall be imposed upon the following:
1. Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the City to impose the tax;
2. Any federal or state officer or employee when on official business; or
3. Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
B. No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefore made at the time
rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
Prior Code 29- 13; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.040 Registration of Operators
A. Within 30 days after commencing business, each operator of any hotel renting
occupancy to transients shall register such hotel with the Tax Administrator and obtain from him
a " transient occupancy registration certificate" to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises.
B. Such certificate shall among other things, state the following:
1. The name of the operator;
2. The address of the hotel;
3. The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
4. This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the Tax Administrator for the purpose of collecting
from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the Tax Administrator.
This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct
any lawful business in an unlawful manner nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with
all local applicable laws including, but not limited to, those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this City. This certificate does not constitute a permit."
Prior Code 29- 14; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
3. 24 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 24.050 Collection of Tax by Operators
A. Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.
B. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent
charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator.
C. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it
will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
provided in this chapter.
Prior Code 29- 15; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.060 Reports and Remittances Due When
A. Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of
each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which may be established
by the Tax Administrator, make a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms provided by him, of
the total rents charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies.
B. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted
to the Tax Administrator.
C. The Tax Administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate
holder if he deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax and he may require
further information in the return.
D. Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason.
E. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for
the account of the City until payment thereof is made to the Tax Administrator.
Prior Code 29- 16; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.070 Delinquent Payments - Unlawful Procedures - Penalty
A. Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax in
addition to the amount of the tax.
B. Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the remittance first
became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent of the amount of the
tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent penalty first imposed.
C. Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax
shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in Subsections A and B of this section.
D. Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any
tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one- half of one percent per month or
fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.
E. Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
Prior Code 29- 17; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
3. 24 ( 3) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 24.080 Failure to Collect Tax - Assessment by Tax Administrator
A. If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax levied by this chapter and to
make within the time provided in this chapter any report and remittance of such tax or any
portion thereof, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to
obtain facts and information on which to base his estimate of the tax due.
B. As soon as the Tax Administrator shall procure such facts and information as he
is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and
payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report
and remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this chapter.
C. In case such determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of
the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known place of address.
D. Such operator may within ten days after the serving or mailing of such notice
make application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed.
1. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the time
prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax Administrator shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable.
2. If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than
five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time
and place fixed in such notice why such amount specified therein should not be fixed for such
tax, interest and penalties.
3. At such hearing the operator may appear and offer evidence why such
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed.
4. After such hearing the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax to
be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties.
5. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days unless
an appeal is taken as provided in Section 3.24. 090.
Prior Code 29- 18; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.090 Appeal Procedure
A. Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the City Council by filing a
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination
of tax due.
B. The City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the City
Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of address.
C. The findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served
upon the appellant in the manner prescribed in Subsection B of this section for service of notice
of hearing.
D. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the
service of notice.
Prior Code 29- 19; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.100 Tax Deemed Debt to City - Recovery by Court Action
A. Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City.
3. 24 ( 4) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall
be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City.
C. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.
Prior Code 29- 20; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.110 Recordkeeping Requirements
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the City of
any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all records as
may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the
collection and payment to the City, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.
Prior Code 29- 21; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.120 Refund of Taxes
A. Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this
chapter, it may be refunded as provided in Subsections B and C of this section; provided, that a
claim in writing therefore, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the
claim is founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three years of the date of payment.
The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
B. An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received
when it is established in a manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from
whom the tax has been collected was not a transient; provided, that neither a refund nor a credit
shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to the
transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.
C. A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided
in Subsection A of this section, but only when the tax was paid by the transient directly to the
Tax Administrator or when the transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund from
the operator who collected the tax.
D. No refund shall be paid under provisions of this section unless the claimant
establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.
Prior Code 29- 22; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
Section 3. 24.130 Unlawful Activities Designated
A. No operator or other person shall fail or refuse to register as required by this
chapter, or furnish any return required to be made, or fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental
return or other data required by the Tax Administrator, or render a false or fraudulent return or
claim.
B. No person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim shall make
any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any
amount due required by this chapter to be made.
Prior 29- 24; Ord. No. 64- 25, Enacted 6/ 29/ 64)
3. 24 ( 5) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 28
Construction License Tax
Sections:
3.28.010 Purpose of Provisions
3.28.020 Definitions
3.28.030 Tax Rate - Computation
3.28.040 Time of Payment - Refunds
3.28.050 Exceptions from Tax
3.28.060 Use of Tax Monies
Section 3.28.010 Purpose of Provisions
A. By virtue of the increase in the development of dwelling units and additions thereto
within the City, with the resulting increase in the population of the City, an immediate demand has
been created for the planning, acquisition, improvement and expansion of public parks,
playgrounds and recreational facilities to serve the increasing population of this City, as well as
the method by which to finance such acquisition, improvement and expansion. Therefore, it is the
intent of the Council that each builder of each dwelling unit and of each bedroom addition to be
constructed within the City shall, prior to construction, pay a license tax as described in this
chapter in addition to any other license taxes or fees which may be payable pursuant to other
provisions of this Code or resolutions of the City Council. The payment of the license tax is
required and assessed pursuant to the taxing power of the City and is solely for the purpose of
producing revenue.
B. Further, it is the intent of the Council that all revenue generated by the payment of
such fees shall be used for the acquisition, improvement and expansion of parks and recreational
facilities.
Prior Code 6A- 1; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77)
Section 3.28.020 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
Dwelling Unit" means each single-family detached dwelling, each pad for a mobile
home or trailer and each unit of a duplex or multiple- dwelling structure, designed as a separate
habitation for one or more persons.
Person" means every individual, partnership, firm or corporation that is to construct or
install or is to be responsible for the construction or installation of a dwelling unit, or every
individual, partnership, firm or corporation that is to construct or install or is to be responsible for
the construction or installation of a dwelling unit through the services of an employee, agent or
independent contractor.
Prior Code 6A-2; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77; Ord. No. 77- 32, Amended 9/ 12/ 77; Ord. No. 83- 41,
Amended 8/ 8/ 83)
Section 3. 28.030 Tax Rate - Computation
A. Every person constructing or installing any dwelling units or constructing or
installing any bedroom addition to an existing dwelling in the City, shall pay to the City a license
tax in accordance with the following schedule:
3. 28 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
1. For each room addition to an existing dwelling unit: $ 113.
2. For each dwelling unit where building plans are applicable, fees shall be
collected according to the following table:
One-room unit: 113. 00
Two-room unit: 225. 00
Three- room unit: 338. 00
Four-room unit: 450. 00
Five- room unit: 563. 00
Six- room unit: 675. 00
Seven- room unit: 788. 00
Eight- room unit: 900. 00
Mobile home: 325. 00 in an MHP on a temporary foundation
3. Rooms to be included in determining park fees are as follows:
a. Kitchens
b. Dining rooms ( if partially enclosed)
C. Living rooms
d. Enclosed porches
e. Bedrooms
f. Dens, libraries, studies etc.
4. Rooms not included in determining park fees:
a. Bathrooms
b. Storage areas (attic, garage, closet, etc.)
C. Open porches
B. The tax schedule set forth in Subsection A of this section may be adjusted
periodically as deemed necessary by the City Council by amendment to this section.
Prior Code 6A-3; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77)
Section 3. 28.040 Time of Payment - Refunds
A. The taxes required by this chapter shall be due and payable upon issuance of a
building permit for the construction of any dwelling unit or bedroom addition. Any fee paid
pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be paid one time only.
B. Any tax paid pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be refunded by the City
upon application of the payor in event that construction does not occur and the building permit
expires.
Prior Code 6A-4; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77)
Section 3. 28.050 Exceptions from Tax
Excepted from the payment of the taxes as provided for in this chapter shall be:
A. Any dwelling unit included in a subdivision for which a final or parcel map has
been recorded, if the subdivider has either dedicated land or paid fees, or both, for park and
recreational purposes as required by Chapter 17 of this code, provided that this exception
shall not apply to any bedroom addition to any such dwelling unit;
B. Any building permit issued for remodeling of any dwelling unit, provided that a
bedroom addition shall not be considered remodeling;
C. Any dwelling unit which is destroyed in whole or in part, by fire, wind, flooding
or other sudden and unexpected element, which is to be reconstructed with the same number
of bedrooms; and
D. The United States, State of California, school districts, counties, cities and
other public agencies.
Prior Code 6A-5; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77)
3. 28 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 28.060 Use of Tax Monies
All taxes collected pursuant to this chapter shall be used solely for the acquisition,
improvement and expansion of park or recreation facilities, which facilities shall be located
and operated so as to reasonably meet the recreational needs of the increased population of
the City and, in particular, the recreational needs of the occupants of those dwelling units and
bedroom additions, the construction of which resulted in the payment of taxes pursuant to this
chapter.
Prior Code 6A-6; Ord. No. 77- 34, Amended 7/ 11/ 77)
3. 28 ( 3) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.32
City Advertising Fund
Sections:
3. 32.010 Fund Established - Purpose - Administering Agencies
Section 3. 32.010 Fund Established - Purpose - Administering Agencies
A. There is established an advertising fund.
B. Expenditures from such advertising fund shall be used for the following purposes
and none other:
1. The preparation and distribution of brochures advertising the City.
2. The installation and maintenance of signs and billboards advertising the
City.
3. The placing of advertising in newspapers and advertising journals.
4. The preparation and distribution of a " business climate survey.
5. The timely advertisement of local facilities and attributes in newspapers or
other media.
C. The Vista Chamber of Commerce and the Vista Junior Chamber of Commerce
are designated as the agencies to carry out the purposes set forth in this chapter.
Prior Code 10- 1; Ord. No. 64- 10, Amended 3/ 10/ 64)
3. 32 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.36
Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund
Sections:
3. 36.010 Fund Established - Statutory Authority
3. 36.020 Source of Funds
3. 36.030 Use and Expenditure of Funds
Section 3. 36.010 Fund Established - Statutory Authority
To comply with the provisions of Section 196, Article 5, Chapter 1, Division 1 of the
Streets and Highways Code of the State, there is established in the City Treasury a special fund
to be known as the " Special Gas Tax Street Improvement Fund."
Prior Code 10- 9; Ord. No. 63- 3, Enacted 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 3. 36.020 Source of Funds
All money received by the City from the state under the provisions of the Streets and
Highways Code of the state for the acquisition of real property or interests therein, or for
engineering, or for the construction, maintenance or improvement of streets or highways by the
City, shall be paid into the special gas tax street improvement fund.
Prior Code 10- 10; Ord. No. 63- 3, Enacted 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 3. 36.030 Use and Expenditure of Funds
All money in the special gas tax street improvement fund shall be expended exclusively
for the purposes authorized by, and subject to the provisions of Sections 194 to 202 of Article 5,
Chapter 1, Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code of the state.
Prior Code 10- 11; Ord. No. 63- 3, Enacted 2/ 15/ 63)
3. 36 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.40
Forfeited Property and Assets
Sections:
3.40.010 Program Established - Statutory Authority
3.40.020 Use of Funds
3.40.030 Title to Property or Assets - Proceeds from Sale
3.40.040 Accounting and Reporting Procedures
Section 3.40.010 Program Established - Statutory Authority
A. Notwithstanding other City ordinances relating to similar issues, a Law
Enforcement Forfeited Property and Assets Program is established whereby the City may receive
forfeited property transferred to it from the County Sheriff's Department in accordance with
Section 8 of the Agreement of General Law and Traffic Enforcement Services and other pertinent
authority such as the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 ( 21 U. S. Code Section 873, et.
seq.), the United States Attorney General' s Guidelines on Seized and Forfeited Property
Paragraph III D. 3. e), and the California Health and Safety Code Sections 11470 through 11493.
B. The property and assets subject to the program are those which have been seized
or collected by contracted law enforcement personnel during the investigation of criminal
activities, subsequently forfeited by judicial or administrative decision, and transferred to the City
as a result of participation by contracted law enforcement personnel. The program' s purpose
shall be to provide an added incentive to the City to assist contracted law enforcement personnel
in the fight against crime, especially illegal drug trafficking.
Prior Code 10- 20; Ord. No. 90- 09, Enacted, 3/ 26/ 90)
Section 3.40.020 Use of Funds
Any monies received by the Forfeited Property and Assets Program, including the monies
received from the sale of any forfeited tangible property or other asset, and any interest thereon
shall be deposited into a law enforcement forfeited property and assets account of the General
Fund. The account shall be used by the City exclusively for law enforcement purposes.
Prior Code 10- 21; Ord. No. 90- 09, Enacted, 03/ 26/ 90)
Section 3.40.030 Title to Property or Assets - Proceeds from Sale
A. Title to all property or assets received pursuant to this program shall be taken in
the name of the City and shall vest in the City. Upon receipt of any transferred property or asset,
the City Manager or the City Manager' s designee shall immediately notify the City Finance
Director of the acquisition. The Finance Director or the Finance Director' s designee shall make
the necessary entries in the City' s inventory and accounting records, using the property' s or
asset's fair market value on the date of acquisition, as determined by the City' s purchasing agent.
B. Whenever the City deems it necessary or expedient to sell the forfeited noncash
property or assets received, the proceeds shall be deposited in the law enforcement forfeited
property and assets account.
Prior Code 10- 22; Ord. No. 90- 09, Enacted, 03/ 26/ 90)
3. 40 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 40.040 Accounting and Reporting Procedures
A. The Finance Director shall establish regular accounting and reporting procedures
in connection with the law enforcement forfeited property and assets program with strict
accountability.
B. A report shall be provided to the City Manager on no less than an annual basis
detailing all monies and tangible assets received, all deposits and all disbursements.
Prior Code 10- 23; Ord. No. 90- 09, Enacted, 03/ 26/ 90)
3. 40 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.44
Booking Fees
Sections:
3.44.010 Purpose
3.44.020 Collection Responsibility
3.44.030 Execution
3.44.040 Trust Account
3.44.050 Collection by City
Section 3. 44.010 Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to impose administrative fees upon individuals who are
booked into county jails.
Ord. No. 93- 24, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 93)
Section 3. 44.020 Collection Responsibility
A. The courts of San Diego County are hereby requested to order payment in the
amount of $ 154 for criminal justice administration fees, as authorized by Government Code
Section 29550. 1, by convicted persons at the time of entering judgment of conviction of any
person arrested by officers of the City of Vista.
B. The courts of San Diego County are hereby requested to impose as a condition
of probation in order that the convicted person reimburse the City of Vista for criminal justice
administration fees imposed on the City of Vista by San Diego County in the amount of$ 154 as
a result of the arrest, booking and process of the convicted person.
Ord. No. 93- 24, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 93)
Section 3. 44.030 Execution
Execution of the order for payment shall be made in the same manner as a judgment in
a civil action.
Ord. No. 93-24, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 93)
Section 3. 44.040 Trust Account
Until the dispute between the City of Vista and the County of San Diego as to the
amount of the criminal justice administration fee is resolved, the courts of San Diego County
are hereby requested to have all criminal justice administrative fees paid by convicted person in
a trust account administered by the county, the Court Administrator, or the County Auditor, to
be held for the benefit of those cities required to pay such fees to the county.
Ord. No. 93- 24, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 93)
Section 3.44.050 Collection by City
At such time as the aforementioned dispute is resolved, the City of Vista may recover
the amount of criminal justice administrative fees previously paid into said trust account,
together with all interest accruing on such fees and thereafter, all of such fees are to be
collected by the cities as prescribed in Government Code Section 1.
Ord. No. 93- 24, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 93)
3. 44 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.48
Standards for Public Works Construction
Sections:
3.48.010 Purpose and Intent
3.48.020 Definitions
3.48.030 Requirements for Award of Contracts for Public Projects
3.48.040 Requirements for Contracting Public Projects
3.48.050 Informal Bidding Requirements
3.48.060 Formal Bidding Requirements
3.48.070 Approval of Change Orders on Public Works Contracts
Section 3.48.010 Purpose and Intent
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.020 Definitions
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.030 Requirements for Award of Contracts for Public Projects
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.040 Requirements for Contracting Public Projects
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.050 Informal Bidding Requirements
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.060 Formal Bidding Requirements
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
Section 3.48.070 Approval of Change Orders on Public Works Contracts
Ord. No. 94- 19, Added, 08/ 09/94; Ord. No. 2004- 11, Amended, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2007- 9, Repealed,
6/ 26/ 07)
3. 48 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 52
Central Vista Business Improvement District
Sections:
3. 52.010 Establishment of District
3. 52.020 District Boundaries; Benefit Zones
3. 52.030 Definitions
3. 52.040 Advisory Board; Appointment; Duties
3. 52.050 Method and Basis of Levying Assessments
3. 52.060 Collection of Assessments; Time and Manner; Delinquencies
3. 52.070 Revenues
3. 52.080 Modification of District Boundaries, Assessments, Improvements or
Activities
3. 52.090 Alternative Procedures for Disestablishment of the District
Section 3. 52.010 Establishment of District
Pursuant to Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 ( hereafter referred to
as the " Law"), being Part 6, Division 18 of the California Streets and Highways Code, there is
hereby established the Central Vista Business Improvement District of the City of Vista
hereafter referred to as the " District"). The businesses in the District shall be subject to any
amendments to the Law. The improvements and activities to be provided in the District shall be
funded by the levy of assessments upon businesses operating within the District in accordance
with this Chapter and the Law.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95)
Section 3. 52.020 District Boundaries; Benefit Zones
The boundaries of the District, and the establishment of certain separate benefit zones,
are delineated as shown in the diagram below.
CENTRAL VISTA BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Diagram of Boundaries and Benefit Zones
See following page)
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95; Ord. No. 2006- 3, Amended, 02/ 28/ 06)
3. 52 ( l) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
O
c
CL)
N 06,
ESI
cto Ire
m 4d4487
458
lvc a. o 494 6ee.
o te le
e
N Pei
is.
zr
to
17 W
t41 OP IP-T! "
o
3,12
co
aP
518
3.)
cl)
ca- 4F m 14N
aj
m CLO r- i id
0
00 aj 0 e
cl) qC is 00 ee
0
Lr)
lu
41 Co
cu
aNV1038 VI
I CD M r C> M C)
W C) M to U'.N M (L=O)
19
ell,
cn
0) co C) ce) co LO CO) LO
W LO M  W A
C%j ce) 14- co
C> CD C) O In O
01 LO C) LO cli U-) LO tt,
P-
603 69 6f3 6q 613 6f3 6F> Q
Ic.
0
pp
04
E c,
0
Ul
15
r
cu3
n 0
cn ot5 Fn- CU
0 cor) 0
cu do 3soo
a- LL EXHIBITA
3. 52 ( 2)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 52.030 Definitions
The words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the same meaning as defined by
or given in the law, except as otherwise defined in this section.
Employee" means all persons employed or otherwise engaged in the operation of a
business and includes, but is not limited to, employees, family members, partners, agents and
subcontractors. For businesses with part time, occasional, or seasonal employees, the number
of employees is determined first by calculating the number of full time equivalent employees on
an annual basis. The number of full time equivalent employees is determined by the actual or
estimated total number of hours worked by all part time, occasional, or seasonal employees
during the immediate prior fiscal year of the business, then, by dividing that number by 2, 000.
The resulting quotient shall be rounded to the next lowest whole number. The result shall be
the number of full time equivalent employees. The number of full time equivalent employees
shall then be added to the number of all regular full time employees.
Business Classification" means a category of business, including a retail, service,
restaurant, professional, wholesale or manufacturing business, or a financial institution. Where
such type or class of business is defined by any law or by any ordinance or code of the City of
Vista, such definition shall be used. Otherwise, the definition of the classification of the
business most often used in describing such business shall be applied.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95)
Section 3. 52.040 Advisory Board; Appointment; Duties
A. An Advisory Board is hereby established.
B. The City Council shall appoint seven persons to the Advisory Board. The
appointees shall be owners of businesses subject to the assessments within the District unless
otherwise qualified and acceptable candidates meeting this requirement are unavailable.
C. The Advisory Board shall meet periodically, but not less than once each year, for
the purpose of recommending to the City Council the expenditures of revenues derived from the
levy of assessments within the District, the classification of the businesses to be assessed, and
the method and basis of levying the assessments. In addition, the Advisory Board shall meet at
such times and for such purposes as the City Council may direct by resolution.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95; Ord. No. 2011- 7, Amended 09/ 27/ 11; Ord. No. 2019- 1,
Amended, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 3. 52.050 Method and Basis of Levying Assessments
A. The assessments to be levied upon businesses of each classification within each
separate zone of the district pursuant to this chapter shall be as follows:
3. 52 ( 3) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
METHOD AND BASIS FOR LEVYING ASSESSMENTS
Central Vista Business Improvement District
Business Classification Number of Employees Zone A Zone B Zone C
Retail & Restaurant 1- 3 300 168 67
4- 10 450 250 100
11- 20 600 333 133
21+ 750 418 167
Service 225 125 50
Professional and Other 150 83 33
Financial Institution 750 625 500
B. In the event any business operating out of a single premises or location within
the district falls within two or more individual business classifications, the business shall be
assessed at the highest amount of the two or more business classifications.
C. Any business operating out of more than one location within the District shall be
assessed a separate assessment, according to the business classification operating at each
location.
D. If two or more businesses owned separately operate out of a single location
within the District, each business shall be assessed separately at the assessment for the
appropriate type of business classification.
E. The assessment upon a business entity organized and operating as nonprofit
entity under California law, or the law of another state, shall be levied at one- half the amount of
the assessment otherwise levied under this section.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/22/ 95; Ord. No. 96- 16, Amended, 08/ 13/ 96)
Section 3. 52.060 Collection of Assessments; Time and Manner; Delinquencies
A. Assessments levied upon businesses within the District shall be collected by the
City Treasurer, or the City Treasurer's designated agent or deputy.
B. Each year, following the levy of assessments by the City Council, the City
Treasurer shall cause a notice of assessment to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each
business assessed, at the current address given for such business on the City' s business
license records. The notice of assessment shall identify the amount of the assessment, and
shall provide that the assessment must be paid in full to the City Treasurer within 30 days from
the date of the notice. New businesses or businesses re- established during the fiscal year for
which the assessment has been levied, which were not open at the beginning of the year, shall
be assessed a pro rata portion of the full assessment based upon the number of months
remaining in the fiscal year, rounded to the nearest full month, from the date that the business
was opened.
C. If payment of all or any portion of any assessment is not received by the City
Treasurer by the due date, or postmarked by midnight of the next business day following the
due date if deposited in a U. S. postal depository, such assessment shall be deemed delinquent.
For failure to pay the assessment when due, the City Treasurer shall add a 20 percent penalty
on the last day of the month after the due date thereof, and if not paid within 60 days from the
due date, an additional 25 percent penalty shall be added. If the delinquent assessment is not
paid within 30 days from the due date, the City Treasurer shall commence appropriate
measures to enforce the collection, including but not limited to, commencement of an action in
3. 52 ( 4) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
any court of appropriate jurisdiction. All costs incurred by the City in any enforcement measure,
including the cost of reasonable attorney' s fees incurred in any legal action, shall be added to
the amount of the assessment. Upon receipt of a recommendation of the Central Vista
Business Improvement District Advisory Board and a showing of good cause, the City Treasurer
may reduce or waive a penalty.
D. By resolution, the City Council may adjust the due dates for payments and the
penalties for late payments set forth in this section.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95; Ord. No. 96- 16, Repealed, 08/ 13/ 96; Ord. No. 2006- 3, Amended,
2/ 28/ 06; Ord. No. 2010- 15, Amended, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2012- 2, Amended, 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 3. 52.070 Revenues
A. All revenues received by the City Treasurer from the payment of assessments,
and the interest earned on such revenues, shall be deposited by the Treasurer in a separate
fund of the City to be known as the " Central Vista Business Improvement District Revenue
Fund" ( hereafter, the " Fund"). Revenues received from each separate benefit zone within the
District shall be deposited to a separate account within the Fund established for that zone.
B. All expenses and payments authorized to be made on behalf of the District shall
be appropriated by the City Council and disbursed from revenues in the Fund. The revenues
from assessments shall not be used to provide improvements and activities outside the District,
or for any purpose other than the following:
1. General promotion of business activities within the District.
2. Promotion of public events which benefit businesses within the District
and which are to take place on or in public places within the District.
3. Decoration of any public place within the District.
4. Furnishing of music on any public place within the District.
5. Acquisition, construction, installation or maintenance of improvements
permitted in the Law.
6. Other activities which benefit businesses located and operating within the
District.
For purposes of this section, all costs and expenses incurred by the City of Vista in
administering the affairs of the District, or incurred by the City on the District's behalf, shall be
deemed to be included within " other activities which benefit businesses located and operating
within the District," and shall be charged against the Fund.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95)
Section 3. 52.080 Modification of District Boundaries, Assessments, Improvements or
Activities
Upon recommendation of the Advisory Board, the City Council may modify the
boundaries, the basis or method of assessments, the improvements or activities to be funded by
assessments within the District in the manner required by Chapter 4 of the Law, commencing
with Section 36540, as amended.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95)
Section 3. 52.090 Alternative Procedures for Disestablishment of the District
A. In addition to the procedures for initiating the disestablishment of the District
provided in Chapter 4 of the Law, business owners within the District may initiate
disestablishment proceedings in the manner provided by this section.
3. 52 ( 5) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Owners of businesses within the District who are subject to the assessment may
petition the City Council at any time to disestablish the District. If a petition calling for the
disestablishment of the District is received by the City Clerk, the petition shall be presented to
the City Council at the next available meeting. Upon receiving such a petition, the City Council
shall order that the petition be examined against the current business records of the City to
determine the number of valid signatures appearing thereon. If the petition is determined to
bear the signatures of owners of businesses within the District which have been assessed 50%
or more of the total assessments levied within the District for the most recent fiscal year in which
assessments have been levied, the City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention to
disestablish the District, which resolution shall state the time and date for a public hearing to be
held for the purpose of determining whether the district shall be disestablished, and include all
other information required by the Law.
C. The City Council shall conduct the hearing as provided in its resolution of
intention. At the close of the public hearing, the City Council shall determine whether or not to
disestablish the District, and if the District is to be disestablished the manner of such
disestablishment, as authorized by law.
Ord. No. 95- 8, Enacted, 08/ 22/ 95)
3. 52 ( 6) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 56
Tobacco Retail License
Sections:
3. 56.010 Legislative Findings
3. 56.020 Purpose
3. 56.030 Definitions
3. 56.040 Requirement for Tobacco Retail License
3. 56.050 Applications Procedure
3. 56.060 Issuance and Renewal of License
3. 56.070 Display of License
3. 56.080 License Fee
3. 56.090 Licenses Nontransferable
3. 56. 100 License Violation - Compliance Monitoring
3. 56. 110 Suspension or Revocation of License
3. 56. 120 Denial, Suspension and Revocation - Appeals
3. 56. 130 Hearings - Generally
3. 56. 140 Conduct of Hearing
3. 56. 150 Form and Contents of Decision of Hearing Officer - Appeal to City Manager
Finality of Decision
Section 3. 56.010 Legislative Findings
The City Council finds and determines that:
A. California Penal Code Section 308 prohibits the sale or furnishing of cigarettes,
tobacco products and smoking paraphernalia to persons under 21 years of age, as well as the
purchase, receipt, or possession of tobacco products by persons under 21 years of age.
B. California Business & Professions Code Section 22956 requires that tobacco
retailers check the identification of tobacco purchasers who reasonably appear to be under 21
years of age.
C. California Business & Professions Code Section 22952 and California Penal
Code Section 308 require that tobacco retailers post a conspicuous notice at each point of sale
stating that selling tobacco products to anyone under 21 years of age is illegal.
D. California Business & Profession Code Section 22962 prohibits the sale or
display of cigarettes though a self-service display and prohibits public access to cigarettes
without the assistance of a clerk.
E. California Penal Code Section 308. 1 prohibits the sale of " bidis" ( hand- rolled
filterless cigarettes imported primarily from India and Southeastern Asia countries) except at
those businesses that prohibit the presence of persons under 21 years of age.
F. California Penal Code Section 308. 3 prohibits the manufacture, distribution, or
sale of cigarettes in packages of less than 20 and prohibits the manufacture, distribution, or sale
of" roll- your-own" tobacco in packages containing less than 0. 60 ounces of tobacco.
G. California Education Code Section 48901( a) prohibits public school students from
smoking or using tobacco products while on campus, while attending school- sponsored
activities, or while under the supervision or control of school district employees.
H. Chapter 8. 16 of the Vista Municipal Code regulates access to and use of tobacco
products by persons under 21 years of age.
I. California Business & Professions Code Section 22971. 3 authorizes local
authorities to adopt tobacco retailer licensing laws to provide for the suspension and revocation
of the local tobacco retailer license for any violation of a state tobacco control law.
3. 56 ( l) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
J. Despite the above referenced restrictions, minors continue to obtain cigarettes
and other tobacco products at alarming rates. Each year an estimated 924 million packs of
cigarettes are consumed by minors 12 to 17 years of age.
K. In a 2001 California youth- buying survey, 17. 1% of retailers surveyed unlawfully
sold tobacco products to minors.
L. In a 2004 San Diego County youth- buying survey, 33.4% of retailers surveyed
unlawfully sold tobacco products to minors.
M. The City of Vista has a substantial interest in promoting compliance with federal,
state and local laws intended to regulate tobacco sales and use.
N. Studies have shown that local tobacco retail licensing programs coupled with a
strong enforcement program substantially reduces youth access to tobacco.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/05; Ord. No. 2016- 13, Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
Section 3. 56.020 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage responsible tobacco retailing and
discourage violations of tobacco-related laws that prohibit the sale or distribution of tobacco
products to persons under 21 years of age and tobacco- related laws that prohibit the display of
tobacco products within reach of the public, but not to expand or reduce the degree to which the
acts regulated by federal or state law are criminally proscribed or to alter the penalty provided
therefore.
Ord. No. 2005- 12; Ord. No. 2016- 13, Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
Section 3. 56.030 Definitions
When used in this chapter, the following definitions shall have the meanings given by
this section, whether or not these words or phrases are capitalized:
Hearing Officer" means the City employee designated by the City Manager to serve in
this capacity.
Itinerant Tobacco Retailing" means engaging in tobacco retailing at other than a fixed
location.
Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
Proprietor" means a person with an ownership or managerial interest in a business.
An ownership interest shall be deemed to exist when a person has a ten percent or greater
interest in the stock, assets or income of a business other than the sole interest of security for
debt. A managerial interest shall be deemed to exist when a person has, or can have, sole or
shared control over the day- to-day operations of a business.
Tobacco Product" means: ( 1) any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but
not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, bidis, or
any other preparation of tobacco; and ( 2) any product or formulation of matter containing
biologically active amounts of nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or other
distributed with the expectation that the product or matter will be introduced into the human
body, but does not include any product specifically approved by the Federal Food and Drug
Administration for use in treating nicotine or tobacco product dependence.
Tobacco Paraphernalia" includes cigarette papers or wrappers, pipes, holders of
smoking materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and any other item designed for the
smoking or ingestion of tobacco products.
Tobacco Retailer" means any person who sells, offers for sale, exchanges, or offers
to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia
3. 56 ( 2) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
without regard to the quantity sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
Tobacco Retailing" shall mean selling, offering for sale, exchanging, or offering to
exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia
without regard to the quantity sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56.040 Requirement for Tobacco Retail License
A. It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a tobacco retailer without first
obtaining and maintaining a valid tobacco retail license pursuant to this chapter for each location
at which tobacco retailing is to occur. No tobacco retail license will be issued to authorized
tobacco retailing at other than a fixed location. No license will be issued for itinerant tobacco
retailing or tobacco retailing from vehicles.
B. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant any person obtaining a
tobacco retail license any status or right other than the right to act as a tobacco retailer at the
location in the City identified on the face of the license, subject to compliance with all other
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
render inapplicable, supersede, or apply in lieu of any other provision of applicable law,
including, without limitation, any condition or limitation on indoor smoking made applicable to
business establishments by Labor Code Section 6404. 5.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56.050 Applications Procedure
A. Application for a tobacco retail license shall be submitted to the Finance
Department in the name of each proprietor proposing to conduct tobacco retailing and shall be
signed by each proprietor or an authorized agent thereof. A proprietor proposing to conduct
tobacco retailing at more than one location shall submit a separate application for each location.
B. All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the City and shall
contain the following information:
1. The name, address, and telephone number of each proprietor.
2. The business name, address and telephone number of the fixed location
for which a tobacco retail license is sought.
3. The name and mailing address authorized by each applicant to receive all
license- related communications and notices ( the " authorized address"). Failure to supply an
authorized address shall be understood to consent to the provision of notice at the business
address specified in paragraph 2, above.
4. Whether or not any applicant has previously been issued a license
pursuant to this chapter that is or was at any time suspended or revoked and, if so, the dates of
the suspension period or the date of revocation.
5. Such other information as the City Manager deems necessary for the
administration or enforcement of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56.060 Issuance and Renewal of License
A. Upon the receipt of an application for a tobacco retail license and the payment of
a tobacco retail license fee, the City shall issue a license unless:
1. The application is incomplete or inaccurate.
2. The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing at an address
that appears on a license that is suspended, has been revoked, or is subject to suspension or
revocation proceedings for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; provided, however,
3. 56 ( 3) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
this subparagraph shall not constitute a basis for denial of a license if either or both of the
following apply:
a. The applicant provides the City with documentation demonstrating
that the applicant has acquired or is acquiring the premises or business in an arm' s length
transaction. For the purposes of this subparagraph, an " arm' s length transaction" is defined as
sale in good faith and for valuable consideration that reflects the fair market value in the open
market between two informed and willing parties, neither under any compulsion to participate in
the transaction. A sale between relatives, related companies or partners, or a sale for the
primary purpose of avoiding the effect of the violations of this chapter that occurred at the
location, is presumed not to be an " arm' s length transaction."
b. It has been more than three years since the most recent license
for that location was revoked.
3. The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing by a proprietor
for which or whom a suspension is in effect or by a proprietor which or who has had a license
revoked, pursuant to this chapter.
4. The application seeks an authorization for tobacco retailing that is
unlawful pursuant to this code, or that is unlawful pursuant to any other local, state, or federal
law.
5. The City has information that the applicant or his or her agents or
employees have violated any local, state, or federal tobacco control law at the location for which
the license or renewal of the license is sought within the preceding 30 day period.
6. The issuance of a tobacco retail license would be in conflict with any
other City ordinance.
B. Beginning from the effective date of this ordinance, all current licenses and any
new licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire on June 30, 2011,
regardless of the date of issuance and then June 30, annually, thereafter, unless prior thereto
revoked by the City. An application to renew such license shall be made no later than 30 days
prior, but no earlier than 60 days prior to the expiration of the license. A license may be
renewed annually by submitting a tobacco retail license application to the Finance Department
along with payment of a tobacco retail licensing fee; provided, however, a tobacco retail license
that is suspended, has been revoked, or is subject to suspension or revocation proceedings
shall not be renewed. The applicant shall follow all of the procedures and provide all of the
information required by Section 3. 56.050 above. The City shall process the application
according to the provisions of this section.
C. If the information required in the license application pursuant to Section
3. 56.050( C), items 1, 2, or 3, changes, a new tobacco retail license is required before the
business may continue to act as a tobacco retailer. For example, if a proprietor to whom a
license has been issued changes business location, that proprietor must apply for a new license
prior to acting as a retailer at the new location. If the business is sold, the new owner must
apply for a license for that location before acting as a tobacco retailer.
D. A tobacco retail license that is not timely renewed pursuant to this chapter shall
be automatically suspended by operation of law. If not renewed, a license shall be
automatically revoked two years after the renewal date. To reinstate the paid status of a license
that has been suspended due to the failure to timely pay the renewal fee, the tobacco retailer
must:
1. Submit the renewal fee plus a reinstatement fee of ten percent of the
renewal fee; and
2. Submit a signed affidavit affirming that he or she has not sold any
tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia during the period the license was suspended for
failure to pay the renewal fee.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05; Ord. No. 2010- 12, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10)
3. 56 ( 4) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 56.070 Display of License
Each license shall be prominently displayed in a publicly visible location at the licensed
premises.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56.080 License Fees
The fee for issuance or renewal of a tobacco retail license shall be established by
resolution of the City Council and shall be in addition to the City' s business license fee and any
other license or permit fee imposed by this code upon the applicant. The tobacco retail license
fee shall be paid to the City at the time the license application is submitted.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56.090 Licenses Nontransferable
A tobacco retail license is nontransferable and is valid only for the person and location of
license issued, unless it is suspended or revoked for cause, for the period indicated. If a
tobacco retail licensee changes the location of his or her business, that tobacco retail licensee
must obtain a new tobacco retail license prior to acting as a tobacco retailer at the new location.
If a business licensed to conduct tobacco retailing is sold or transferred, the new owner must
obtain a tobacco retail license for that location before acting as a tobacco retailer.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 100 License Violation - Compliance Monitoring
A. It shall be a violation of a tobacco retail license for a tobacco retail licensee or his
or her agents or employees to violate any local, state or federal tobacco- related law.
B. Compliance with this chapter shall be monitored by the San Diego Sheriff's
Department. Any peace officer or code compliance official also may enforce this chapter. The
San Diego Sheriff's Department shall check compliance of each tobacco retailer at least one
time per 12 month period and shall conduct additional compliance checks as warranted. The
compliance checks shall be conducted to determine, at a minimum, if the tobacco retailer is
complying with tobacco laws regulating underage sales. The San Diego Sheriff's Department
shall use youth decoys and comply with protocols for the compliance checks developed in
consultation with the San Diego County Department of Health and Human Services and the San
Diego District Attorney. When appropriate, the compliance checks shall determine compliance
with other tobacco- related laws.
C. The City shall not enforce any tobacco- related minimum- age law against a
person who otherwise might be in violation of such law because of a person' s age ( hereinafter
youth decoy") if the potential violation occurs when:
1. The youth decoy is participating in a compliance check supervised by a
peace officer or a Code compliance official; or
2. The youth decoy is participating in a compliance check funded in part by
the San Diego County Department of Health and Human Services or funded in part, either
directly or indirectly through sub-contracting, by the California Department of Health Services.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 110 Suspension or Revocation of License
A. In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, a tobacco retail license may
be suspended or revoked if the City finds, after notice to the tobacco retail licensee and
3. 56 ( 5) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
opportunity to be heard, that the tobacco retail licensee or his or her agents or employees has
or have violated any of the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, violations by a
licensee at one location may not be accumulated against other locations of that same tobacco
retail licensee, nor may violations accumulated against a prior tobacco retail licensee at a
licensed location be accumulated against a new tobacco retail licensee at the same licensed
location.
1. Upon a finding by the City of a first license violation within any three-year
period, the City shall:
a. Issue a written warning to the licensee.
b. Advise the licensee of the penalties for further violations of the
ordinance.
C. Require the licensee to provide documentation to the City that all
employees engaged in the retail sales of tobacco have received training in a City approved
program within 60 days after the warning, or such other time as shall be set by the City.
2. Upon a finding by the City of a second license violation within any threeyear
period, the license may be suspended up to 30 days.
3. Upon the finding by the City of a third license violation within any threeyear
period, the license may be suspended for up to 90 days.
4. Upon the finding by the City of a fourth license violation within any threeyear
period, the license may be suspended for up to one year.
5. Upon a finding by the City of a fifth license violation within any three- year
period, the license may be revoked.
B. A tobacco retail license shall be revoked if the City finds, after notice and
opportunity to be heard, that any one of the conditions listed below exist. The revocation shall
be without prejudice to the filing of a new application for a tobacco retail license.
1. One or more of the bases for denial of a tobacco retail license under
Section 3. 56.060 existed at the time the tobacco retail license application was made or at
anytime before the tobacco retail license was issued.
2. The application is incomplete for failure to provide the information
required by Section 3. 56.050.
3. The information contained in the application, including supplemental
information, if any, is found to be false in any material respect.
4. The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing that is unlawful
pursuant to this Code, or that is unlawful pursuant to any other local, state, or federal law.
C. In the event the City suspends or revokes a tobacco retail license, written notice
of the suspension or revocation shall be served upon the tobacco retail licensee within five days
of the suspension or revocation in a manner prescribed in Section 3. 56.050. The notice shall
contain:
1. A brief statement of the specific grounds for such suspension or
revocation;
2. A statement that the tobacco retail licensee may appeal the suspension
or revocation by submitting an appeal, in writing, in accordance with the provisions of Section
3. 56. 120, to the City, within ten calendar days of the date of the service of the notice; and
3. A statement that the failure to appeal the notice of suspension or
revocation will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative appeal hearing, and the
suspension or revocation will be final.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
3. 56 ( 6) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 56. 120 Denial, Suspension and Revocation - Appeals
A. Any tobacco retail license applicant or licensee aggrieved by the decision of the
City in denying, suspending, or revoking a tobacco retail license, may appeal the decision, by
submitting a written appeal to the City Clerk within ten calendar days from the date of service of
the notice of denial, suspension, or revocation. The written appeal shall contain:
1. A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific action
protested, together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions of the appellant;
2. A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief sought,
and the reasons why it is claimed the protested action should be reversed or otherwise set
aside;
3. The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their official mailing
addresses; and
4. The verification ( by declaration under penalty of perjury) of at least one
appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
B. The appeal hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer.
C. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to this section, the City Clerk shall
transmit said appeal to the hearing officer who shall calendar it for a hearing. The hearing
officer shall give the parties at least 15 calendar days written notice of the time and place of the
hearing either by causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to the appellant personally or by
mailing a copy thereof, postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at the address shown on
the appeal. Upon good cause, the hearing officer may grant one extension for the date of the
hearing not to exceed 15 days from the original date set for the hearing.
D. Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant in the notice of
appeal shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal.
E. Failure of any person to file a timely appeal in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall constitute an irrevocable waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and a
final adjudication of the notice and order, or any portion thereof.
F. Following the hearing on the appeal by the hearing officer, the decision of the
hearing officer may be appealed to the City Manager or his or her designee. A decision of the
City Manager or his or her designee shall be the final decision of the City.
G. During a period of license suspension the tobacco retail licensee must remove
from public view all tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia at the address that appears on
the suspended or revoked tobacco retail license.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 130 Hearings - Generally
A. At the time set for hearing, the hearing officer shall proceed to hear the testimony
of material witnesses, the appellant, and other competent persons, including members of the
public, respecting those matters or issues specifically listed by the appellant in the notice of
appeal.
B. The proceedings at the hearing shall be electronically recorded. Either party may
provide a certified shorthand reporter to maintain a record of the proceedings at the party' s own
expense.
C. The hearing officer may, upon the request of the appellant or upon the request of
the City, grant continuances from time to time for good cause shown, or upon his or her own
motion.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
3. 56 ( 7) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 56. 140 Conduct of Hearing
A. Hearings need not be conducted in accordance to the technical rules relating to
evidence and witnesses. Government Code Section 11513, Subsections ( a), ( b) and ( c) as
presently written or hereinafter amended shall apply to hearings under this chapter.
B. Oral evidence shall be taken only upon oath or affirmation.
C. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
D. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
1. To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues of the
hearing.
2. To introduce documentary and physical evidence.
3. To cross- examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing.
4. To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the witness
to testify.
5. To rebut evidence presented against the party.
6. To represent himself, herself, or itself, or to be represented by anyone of
his, her, or its choice who is lawfully permitted do so.
E. In reaching a decision, official notice may be taken, either before or after
submission of the case for decision, of any fact that may be judicially noticed by the courts of
this state or that may appear in any of the official records of the City of any of its departments.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 150 Form and Contents of Decision of Hearing Officer - Appeal to City
Manager - Finality of Decision
A. If it is shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that one or more bases exist
to deny, suspend, or revoke the tobacco retail license, the hearing officer shall affirm the City' s
decision to deny, suspend, or revoke the tobacco retail license. The decision of the hearing
officer shall be in writing and shall contain findings of fact and a determination of the issues
presented.
B. The decision of the hearing officer shall inform the appellant that the decision
may be appealed to the City Manager by filing a written appeal with the hearing officer within ten
days of receipt of the decision of the hearing officer. The written appeal shall be forwarded to
the City Manager upon receipt.
C. Within 15 days of receipt of the written appeal, the City Manager shall review the
record of the hearing and issue a written decision to grant or deny the appeal. A decision of the
City Manager shall be final. The City Manager shall provide appellant with a copy of his or her
decision and that the time for judicial review is governed by California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.6. Copies of the decision shall be delivered to the parties personally or sent by
certified mail to the address shown on the appeal. The decision shall be final when signed by
City Manager and served as provided in this section.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 160 Enforcement
A. In addition to any other remedy, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each day a violation continues.
B. Any violation of this chapter may be remedied by a civil action brought by the City
Attorney. The City may recover reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit in any civil action
3. 56 ( 8) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
brought by the City Attorney to remedy any violation of this chapter.
C. Violations of this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances subject to
abatement by the City.
D. In addition to criminal sanctions and other remedies set forth in this chapter,
administrative penalties may be imposed pursuant to Section 1. 13. 060 of this code against any
person violating any provision of this chapter. Imposition, enforcement, collection and
administrative review of administrative penalties imposed shall be conducted pursuant to
Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
Section 3. 56. 170 Severability
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase in this
chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, that decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness
of the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or
ineffective.
Ord. No. 2005- 12, Added, 06/ 28/ 05)
3. 56 ( 9) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.60
Debt Collection
Sections:
3. 60.010 Title
3. 60.020 Definitions
3. 60.030 Purpose
3. 60.040 Effect of Other Provisions
3. 60.050 Notice of Debt
3. 60.060 Central Collection Effort
3. 60.070 Payment Plans, Discounts and Additional Penalties
3. 60.080 Collection Agency
3. 60.090 Annual Report and Uncollectable Debt
Section 3. 60.010 Title
This chapter shall be known as the " Debt Collection Ordinance."
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words are used in this chapter, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
City Manager" shall mean the City Manager of the City of Vista.
Collector" shall mean the Finance Director/Treasurer of the City of Vista.
Collection Agency" shall have the same meaning as defined under the Robbins-
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ( Civil Code  1788 et sec.).
Collections" shall mean the activity related to the recovery of monies owed the city by
lawful means.
Debt" shall mean a sum of money, including principal, interest, and penalties, if any,
lawfully owed to the City by debtor.
Debtor" shall mean the person, corporation, or other legal entity owing a debt to the
City.
Delinquent" shall mean a debt that remains unpaid after the due date.
Notice" shall mean a written correspondence to debtor advising of the debt owed the
City.
Penalty" shall mean a monetary assessment added to the original debt as a result of
the debtor' s failure to repay debt in a timely manner as provided by City ordinance.
City Attorney" shall mean the City Attorney of the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.030 Purpose
This chapter is enacted to advance the efficient and timely collection of debts owed the
City.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
3. 60 ( 1) Vista 9/ 25/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 3. 60.040 Effect of Other Provisions
Whenever there is a conflict between provisions of this chapter and state or federal law,
the state or federal law shall prevail.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.050 Notice of a Debt
Whenever any person has been provided notice that they have an obligation to the city
to pay for a service, penalty, or fine, tax or other lawful obligation, the notice shall be deemed
evidence of debt owed the City. The notice shall include the date of the obligation, and shall
provide sufficient information to adequately inform the debtor of the nature of the outstanding
debt.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.060 Central Collection Effort
The City Manager shall establish a process to centralize, streamline, and track
collections of debt from each department and shall establish procedures as necessary for the
timely collection of debts. The City Attorney, in consultation with the City Manager and
Collector, shall assist in the collection of delinquent debts.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.070 Payment Plans, Discounts, and Additional Penalties
A. The City Manager, Collector, or City Attorney may establish such payment plans
for the payment of debts in installments when appropriate and beneficial to the City.
B. City Manager, the Collector, or City Attorney may authorize the waiver of a
portion of penalties or interest or an adjustment on the principal of any debt when appropriate
and beneficial to the City. The City Manager shall develop protocols and guidelines to limit
these adjustments and to provide proper oversight and internal controls.
C. City departments shall transfer delinquent debts to the Finance Department as
directed by City policy. The Collector shall impose a one time transfer fee of $ 15 and shall
charge up to 10 percent simple interest a year on outstanding balances to cover costs of
collection. The 10 percent simple interest charge shall be applied as 0. 833 of one percent on
the first of each month. The total of transfer fee and interest shall not exceed $ 250.
D. Additional expenses for process serving or court documentation or filings may be
charged in addition to the $ 250 as may be allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10; Ord. No. 2015- 15, Amended 8/ 25/ 15)
Section 3. 60.080 Collection Agency
In the event the debtor fails to timely repay debt, the City may engage, as provided by
state law, a collection agency to assist the City in securing payment.
The City may impose an additional one- time ten percent transfer fee when transferring a
debt to a collection agency. This charge may be waived by the City or the collection agency
only if it results in a more timely payment of the debt to the City. This charge may be shared
between the collection agency and the City as provided by contractual agreement.
The collection agency shall exercise the best ethical, prudent, lawful, and professional
efforts to secure collections on all debts referred by the City.
3. 60 ( 2) Vista 9/ 25/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
The collection agency shall comply with all federal, state, and local laws, including, but
not limited to, the Robbins- Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and the Federal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act.
The collection agent may use such payment plans or negotiate partial payments as may
be authorized by the City Manager.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
Section 3. 60.090 Annual Report and Uncollectable Debt
In the event that the cost of collection exceeds the amount recoverable on outstanding
accounts or when the Collector determines that there is no reasonable likelihood of recovery of
the amount owed, the debt may be reported as " uncollectable" and the Collector may
discontinue collection efforts.
The Collector shall on or before the 15th of February each year provide the City
Manager with an annual report on collections based on the preceding calendar year. The report
shall include current status of each debt, the amount collected for the year through advanced
collection efforts ( those beyond routine department billing efforts), any adjustments to the debt,
and the number and amount of debts deemed uncollectable.
Ord. No. 2010- 3, Added, 05/ 11/ 10)
3. 60 ( 3) Vista 9/ 25/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3.64
Establishment and Maintenance of Lease- Revenue Special Funds
Sections:
3. 64.010 Establishment and Maintenance of Lease- Revenue Special Funds
Section 3. 64.010 Establishment and Maintenance of Lease- Revenue Special Funds
A. By resolution or ordinance referring to this section, the City Council may establish
a special fund with respect to lease revenues to be organized and maintained in conformity with
the following requirements.
B. The special fund shall be created, at the direction of the City Council, when the
City is scheduled to purchase one or more parcels, under a single contract with a note serving
as partial payment for those properties.
C. The note shall be payable exclusively from revenues generated pursuant to a
new lease that goes into effect at such time as the City acquires title to the properties or one or
more preexisting leases that will remain in effect following the acquisition.
D. During any time that the note remains outstanding:
1. All revenues collected pursuant to the lease will be deposited into the
special fund.
2. All amounts in the special fund shall be used exclusively for making
payments on the note as may be allowed or required.
3. Amounts in the special fund shall be used for no other purpose.
E. The special fund shall be separately administered and the Finance Director shall
maintain records of all deposits and disbursements, assuring compliance with the requirements
of this ordinance.
F. The note and interest thereon shall not be a debt, charge, lien, encumbrance,
legal or equitable, upon any of the City' s property or any of its income or receipts other than the
lease revenue pledged to payment of the note.
G. The limitations described in paragraph ( F) shall be included in the note.
Ord. No. 2011- 1, Enacted, 2/ 22/ 2011)
3. 64 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 3. 68
Community Benefit Districts
Sections:
3. 68.010 Authority
3. 68.020 Nonexclusive Procedure
3. 68.030 Establishment of Districts
3. 68.040 Incorporation of State Law
3. 68.050 Relationship of Assessment to Zoning
3. 68.060 Assessments Against Real Property
3. 68.070 Initiation of Proceedings
3. 68.080 Duration
3. 68.090 Renewal
3. 68. 100 Disestablishment
Section 3. 68.010 Authority
This Chapter is adopted pursuant to Article 1 of the City Charter, which provides that the
City shall have all powers and privileges that may be exercised by a charter city, except as limited
by the California Constitution.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.020 Nonexclusive Procedure
This Chapter provides a procedure for the establishment of assessment districts that is
separate from, and alternative to, other procedures under state or municipal law. This Chapter
does not prohibit the City Council from establishing an assessment district or conducting
proceedings for such district under any other procedure authorized by law.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.030 Establishment of Districts
Districts formed pursuant to this Chapter shall be identified as community benefit districts,
and once formed, assessments may be levied within the community benefit district as provided in
this Chapter.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.040 Incorporation of State Law
This Chapter incorporates the Property and Business District Law of 1994 in effect on
January 1, 2017 ( Streets and Highways Code  36600 et seq.), which is referenced herein as
the " PBID law." For purposes of this incorporation, all references in the PBID law to a " district"
or a " property and business district' shall be interpreted as references to a community benefit
district. Except where a provision of the PBID law is inconsistent with a provision of this Chapter,
all provisions of the PBID law shall apply to the establishment and operation of any community
benefit district established pursuant to this Chapter. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of this Chapter and those of the PBID law, the provisions in this Chapter shall prevail.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
3. 68 ( l) Vista 3/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.050 Relationship of Assessment to Zoning
Notwithstanding the requirements of Section 36632 of the PBID law, any parcel of real
property, regardless of the zoning of such parcel, may be included in a community benefit district
and subject to an assessment in connection therewith, so long as such parcel specially benefits
from the services and improvements funded by that community benefit district.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.060 Assessments Against Real Property
Only assessments against real property may be levied in connection with a community
benefit district. (Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.070 Initiation of Proceedings
In lieu of the requirements of Section 36621( a) of the PBID law, the City Council may
initiate proceedings to form a community benefit district upon the submission of a written petition,
signed by property owners in the proposed district who will pay more than 30 percent of the
assessments proposed to be levied in connection with such district. The amount of assessment
attributable to property owned by the same property owner that is in excess of 20 percent of the
amount of all assessments proposed to be levied, shall not be included in determining whether
the petition is signed by property owners who will pay more than 30 percent of the total amount
of assessments proposed to be levied.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.080 Duration
The duration of a new community benefit district shall be no greater than specified in the
resolution of intention for the district, and shall in no event be in excess of 20 years. This Section
is intended to supplant any shorter limitation set forth in the PBID law on the duration of
assessments levied in connection with an assessment district.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68.090 Renewal
A community benefit district may be renewed for a period of not to exceed twenty
additional years by following the procedures set forth in Section 36660 of the PBID law.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
Section 3. 68. 100 Disestablishment
The City Council may, on its own initiative, at any time, adopt a resolution of intention to
disestablish a community benefit district. In addition, the City Council shall adopt such a resolution
if, during the annual thirty-day period set forth in Section 36670(a)( 2) of the PBID law, the City
Council receives a written petition requesting disestablishment signed by property owners who
pay more than 30 percent of the assessments levied in connection with the district. This section
provides alternative method for the initiation of proceedings to disestablish a community benefit
district and shall not be interpreted to preempt the existence of other methods set forth in Section
36670 of the PBID law. A resolution of intention adopted pursuant to this section shall have the
same effect, and trigger the same notice and hearing requirements, as a resolution of intention
otherwise adopted pursuant to Section 36670 of the PBID law.
Ord. No. 2017- 3, Added, 03/ 30/ 17)
3. 68 ( 2) Vista 3/ 30/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Title 4
RESERVED
Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (1) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Chapter 5.04
Business Licenses Generally
Sections:
Article I
5.04.000A General Provisions
5.04.010 Title
5.04.020 Definitions
5.04.030 Purpose
5.04.040 Effect of Other Provisions
5.04.050 License and Tax Payment Required
5.04.060 Branch Establishments
5.04.070 Evidence of Doing Business
5.04.080 Constitutional Apportionment
5.04.090 Exemptions - Generally
5.04.100 Exemptions - Charitable Nonprofit Organizations
5.04.110 Exemptions - Disabled Veterans
5.04.120 Exemptions - Certain Public Utilities
5.04.130 License Does Not Permit Business Otherwise Prohibited
5.04.140 Legal Impediments
5.04.145 Prohibition on Licenses for Cannabis-Related Businesses Except for
Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Authorized Under Chapter 5.94, Cannabis
Delivery Services Authorized Under Chapter 5.96, and Cannabis Testing,
Distribution, and Manufacturing Facilities Authorized Under Chapter 5.98
Article II
5.04.149A Administration
5.04.150 Application - First License
5.04.160 Renewal License
5.04.170 Misrepresentation
5.04.180 Statements and Records
5.04.190 Information Confidential
5.04.200 Failure to File Statement or Corrected Statement
5.04.210 Appeal
5.04.220 Additional Power of Collector
Article III
5.04.229A Licenses
5.04.230 Contents of License
5.04.240 License Nontransferable - Changed Location and Ownership
5.04.250 Duplicate License
5.04.260 Posting and Keeping Licenses
5.04.270 License Tax - How and When Payable
5.04.280 Delinquent Taxes - Penalties
5.04.290 Refunds of Overpayments
Article IV
5.04.299A License Taxes
5.04.300 Gross Receipts - Generally
5.04.310 Gross Receipts - Wholesalers, Jobbers, Manufacturers
5.04.320 Flat Rate
5.04.330 Retail Operation by Vehicle
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (2) ( Vista 1/1/21)
5.04.340 Wholesale Delivery by Vehicle
5.04.350 Interpretation
5.04.360 Other Outside Business
5.04.370 Intercity Business
5.04.380 Vending Machine Business
5.04.390 Measure of Tax
5.04.400 Gasoline Sales
Article V
5.04.409A Enforcement
5.04.410 Reclassification
5.04.420 Rules and Regulations
5.04.430 Enforcement Generally
5.04.440 License Tax a Debt
5.04.450 Enforcement - Subcontractors
5.04.460 Remedies Cumulative
5.04.470 Effect of Mistakes
5.04.480 Effect of Chapter on Past Actions - Unexpired Licenses
5.04.490 Violation - Penalty
Section 5.04.000A Article I. General Provisions
Section 5.04.010 Title
This chapter is known as the Business License Ordinance and may be cited as such.
Prior Code 16-1.1.0; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words are used in this chapter, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
Arcade means any place having five or more coin-operated or slug -operated
machines, or five or more of any type of amusement or entertainment machine for which
payment is necessary for operation, not including merchandise vending machines.
Business means professions, trades and occupations, and all and every kind of
calling whether or not carried on for profit.
Cannabis-Related Business means a business, group, collective, association, or
other enterprise involving any one or more of the following: the provision, conveyance,
distribution, delivery, dispatch, cultivation, sale (whether wholesale or retail), storage, laboratory
testing, labeling, processing, preparation, manufacture of medical or other cannabis.
City means the City of Vista, a municipal corporation of the State of California, in its
present incorporated form or in any later reorganized, consolidated, enlarged or reincorporated
form.
Collector means the Director of Finance or other employee of the City designated by
the City Manager.
Employee means an individual who works for a person and is subject to the direction,
management and control of such person with respect to the manner and method of doing such
work. Evidence that deductions for federal taxes are made from such individuals pay shall
establish a rebuttable presumption that such individual is an employee.
Gross receipts means the total of amounts actually received or receivable from sales
and the total amounts actually received or receivable for the performance of any act or service,
or whatever nature it may be, for which a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (3) ( Vista 1/1/21)
act or service is done as a part of or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares or
merchandise.
Included in  gross receipts are all receipts, cash, credits, and property of any kind or
nature, without any deduction there from on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of
materials used, labor or service costs, interest paid or payable, or losses or other expenses
whatsoever.
Excluded from gross receipts are the following:
1. Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales.
2. Credit allowed on property accepted as part of the purchase price and which
property may later be sold.
3. Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price and
collected from the consumer or purchaser.
4. Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon rescission of
the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit.
5. Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent or trustee
to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected, provided the agent or
trustee furnishes the collector, upon request, with the names and addresses of such others and
the amount paid to them.
6. Receipts of refundable deposits, except that refundable deposits forfeited and
taken into income of the business shall not be excluded.
7. As to a real estate or other agent or broker, the sales price of real estate or other
property sold for the account of others, except that portion which represents commission or
other income to the agent or broker.
8. As to a retail gasoline dealer, a portion of his receipts from the sale of motor
vehicle fuels equal to the motor vehicle fuel license tax imposed by and previously paid under
the provisions of Part 2 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
9. Reimbursement for advances previously made on behalf of the payor.
10. As to a retail gasoline dealer, the special motor fuel tax imposed by Section 4041
of Title 26 of the United States Code if paid by the dealer or collected by him from the consumer
or purchaser.
Intercity Business means business being transacted or carried on in the city by a
person whose gross receipts attributable to business in the city does not exceed 75 percent of
the persons total gross receipts.
Itinerant Merchant means any person or agent, who engages in a temporary and
transient business in the city, selling or attempting to sell any article, commodity, game,
amusement device or service and who for the purpose of carrying on such business has no
fixed place of business, or hires, leases or occupies any room, building or structure for the
exhibition or sale of such commodities or service of any class or character, or from which room,
building or structure the sales are to be made or business solicited by means of samples or
delivery from house to house. Any such person so engaged shall not be relieved from the
provisions of this chapter by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer or by conducting such temporary or transient business in connection
with, or as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, merchant or auctioneer.
Peddler or  Solicitor means any person not having a regular established place of
business within the city, who goes from house to house, place to place, or person to person
within the city, soliciting, offering for sale or selling any goods, wares, services, advertising or
merchandise of any nature.
Person means all domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates, joint
stock corporations, partnerships of every kind, clubs, Massachusetts, business or common law
trusts, societies, and individuals transacting and carrying on any business in the city, other than
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (4) ( Vista 1/1/21)
as an employee.
Sale means the transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of title to
property for a consideration; the serving, supplying, or furnishing for a consideration of any
property; and a transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred and the seller
retains the title as security for the payment of the price shall likewise be deemed a sale. The
foregoing definitions shall not be deemed to exclude any transaction which is or which, in effect,
results in a sale within the contemplation of law.
Sworn Statement means an affidavit sworn to before a person authorized to take
oaths, or a declaration or certification made under penalty of perjury within the State of
California.
Tax Period means, with respect to any business subject to an annual license tax due
and payable on July 1, from July 1 of any year to and including June 30 of the next successive
year. With respect to any business subject to an annual license tax due and payable on
October 1, from October 1 of any year to and including September 30 of the next successive
year. Any business subject to the daily license tax, the tax period shall be each from 12:01 a.m.
to and including 12:00 midnight of the same day.
Prior Code 16-1.1.1- 16.1.1.65; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 92-1, Amended, 2/11/92;
Ord. No. 2010-6, Amended, 5/11/10; Ord. No. 2011-8, Amended, 10/25/11; Ord. No. 2018-18, Amended,
12/11/18)
Section 5.04.030 Purpose
This chapter is enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes, and is not
intended for regulations.
Prior Code 16-1.2.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.040 Effect of Other Provisions
A. Persons required to pay a license tax under this chapter shall not be relieved
from the payment of any license tax for the privilege of doing such business required under any
other chapter of this code or other ordinance of the City, and shall remain subject to the
regulatory provisions of other such chapters and ordinances.
B. Whenever there is a conflict between provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of a special ordinance regulating a particular business, trade or profession, the
special ordinance regulating such business shall prevail.
Prior Code 16-1.2.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.050 License and Tax Payment Required
A. There are, imposed upon the businesses, trades, professions, callings and
occupations specified in this chapter, license taxes in the amounts prescribed in this chapter. It
is unlawful for any person to transact or carry on any business, trade, profession, calling or
occupation in the city without first having procured a license from the City to do so and paying
the tax prescribed, and without complying with any and all applicable provisions of this chapter.
B. This section shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a license prior
to doing business within the city if such requirement conflicts with applicable statutes of the
United States or of the State of California. Persons not so required to obtain a license prior to
doing business within the city nevertheless shall be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this
chapter.
Prior Code 16-1.2.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (5) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.060 Branch Establishments
A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location of the
business transacted and carried on, and for each separate type of business at the same
location with respect to which different license tax rates apply pursuant to this chapter, and each
license shall authorize the licensee to transact and carry on only the business licensed thereby
at the location and in the manner designated in such license; provided that warehouses and
distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch
establishments; and provided further, that any person conducting two or more types of
businesses at the same location and under the same management, or two or more businesses
or types of businesses at different locations, but which businesses use a single set or integrated
set of books and records, may, at such persons option, obtain only one license and pay only
one tax calculated on all gross receipts of the businesses under the schedule that applies to the
type of business of such person which requires the highest percentage payment on such gross
receipts. In any event, a license fee of three dollars for each additional branch or location shall
be paid upon issuance.
Prior Code 16-1.2.4; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.070 Evidence of Doing Business
When any person by use of signs, circulars, cards, letterheads, telephone book, radio,
television or newspapers, advertises, holds out, or represents that he is in business in the city,
or when any person holds an active license or permit issued by a governmental agency
indicating that he is in business in the city, and such person in either case fails to deny by a
sworn statement given to the collector that he is not conducting a business in the city after being
requested to do so by the collector, such facts shall be considered prima facie evidence that he
is conducting a business in the city.
Prior Code 16-1.2.5; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.080 Constitutional Apportionment
A. None of the license taxes provided for by this chapter shall be so applied as to
occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of the equal protection and
due process clauses of the Constitutions of the United States and the State of California.
B. In any case where a license tax is believed by a licensee or applicant for a
license to place an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of such
constitutional clauses, he may apply to the collector for an adjustment of the tax. Such
application may be made before, at or within six months after payment of the prescribed license
tax. The applicant shall, by sworn statement and supporting testimony, show the method of
business and the gross volume or estimated gross volume of business and such other
information as the collector may reasonably deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if
any, of such undue burden or violation. Such other information shall include:
1. Name and location of the company or firm for which orders are to be
solicited.
2. The kind of goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered and the place
from which the same are to be shipped or forwarded.
3. The name and address of the local or state manager.
4. The method of solicitation or taking orders and the method of delivery.
5. The location of any warehouse, factory or plant within the state from
which goods are to be delivered.
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (6) ( Vista 1/1/21)
6. Copy of order blank, contract form or other papers used by the applicant
in taking orders.
C. The collector shall then conduct an investigation, and, after having first obtained
the written approval of the City Attorney, shall fix as the license tax for the applicant an amount
that is reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or if the license tax has already been paid, shall order
a refund of the amount over and above the license tax so fixed. In fixing the license tax to be
charged, the collector shall have the power to base the license tax upon a percentage of gross
receipts or any other measure which will assure that the license tax assessed shall be uniform
with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does not
exceed the license tax as prescribed by this chapter. Should the collector determine the gross
receipts measure of the license tax to be the proper basis, he may require the applicant to
submit, either at the time of termination of applicants business in the city, or at the end of each
three-month period, a sworn statement of the gross receipts and pay the amount of license tax
therefore, provided that no additional license tax during any one tax period shall be required
after the licensee shall have paid an amount equal to the annual license tax as prescribed in this
chapter.
Prior Code 16-1.2.6; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.090 Exemptions - Generally
A. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to any person
transacting and carrying on any business exempt by virtue of the Constitution or applicable
statutes of the United States or of statutes of the State of California, or of ordinances of the City,
from the payment of such taxes as are prescribed in this chapter.
B. Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to this section shall file a sworn
statement with the collector stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed, and in the
absence of such statement substantiating the claim, such person shall be liable for the payment
of the taxes imposed by this chapter.
C. The collector shall, upon a proper showing contained in the sworn statement,
issue a license to such person claiming exemption under this section without payment to the
City of the license tax required by this chapter.
D. The collector, after giving notice and a reasonable opportunity for hearing before
the collector to a licensee, may revoke any license granted pursuant to the provisions of this
section upon information that the licensee is not entitled to the exemption as provided in this
chapter.
E. Vendors participating in qualifying special events or park events approved
pursuant to Chapters 12.12 and 12.13 of the Vista Municipal Code may be relieved of the
obligation to obtain a business license on the terms and conditions of a resolution adopted by
the City Council.
Prior Code 16-1.2.7; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 2005-18, Amended, 8/23/05; Ord. No.
2006-4, Amended, 5/23/06)
Section 5.04.100 Exemptions - Charitable Nonprofit Organizations
A. There is specifically exempt from the payment of any license tax provided for in
this chapter any person, institution or organization which:
1. Conducts, manages or carries on any business, occupation or activity
wholly for the benefit of charitable or eleemosynary purposes and from which a profit is not
derived, either directly or indirectly, by any individual.
2. Conducts within the city any entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture
on scientific, historical, literary, religious or moral subjects whenever the receipts of any such
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (7) ( Vista 1/1/21)
entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated to any church, school or
religious or benevolent purpose.
3. Conducts any entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture and such
person, institution or organization is a religious, charitable, eleemosynary, fraternal, educational,
military, state, county or municipal organization or association and the receipts of any such
entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated for the purpose and objects
for which such organization or association was formed and from which profit is not derived,
either directly or indirectly, by any individual.
B. In the event any person, institution or organization set forth in Subsection A of
this section merely sponsors such entertainment, concert, exhibition, lecture or other event, and
only a portion of the receipts from the same are to be appropriated to, or a definite sum is
payable to the person, institution or organization sponsoring such undertaking, the person
staging such entertainment, concert, exhibition, lecture or other event purportedly for such
sponsoring organization shall pay a tax prescribed in this chapter, but shall be entitled to a
proportionate refund equal to the proportion which the amount paid to such sponsoring
organization bears to the total gross receipts from such undertaking. A sworn statement of the
amount received by the sponsoring organization and of the total gross receipts shall be made in
writing by such person and by an official of the sponsoring organization.
Prior Code 16-1.2.71; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.110 Exemptions - Disabled Veterans
Any disabled veteran having honorable discharge papers showing disability incurred
while in service in the armed forces of the United States who is unable to earn a livelihood by
manual labor, who is a qualified elector of this city at the time of the application for a license and
who shall have been a bona fide resident of this city for 30 days immediately preceding the date
on which application for such license is made shall be exempt from the license tax provisions of
this chapter.
Prior Code 16-1.2.72; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.120 Exemptions - Certain Public Utilities
There is specifically exempt from the payment of any license tax provided for in this
chapter any person who provides goods, wares, merchandise or services to the public, and who
pays the City a franchise or other fee for use of the Citys streets in so providing such goods,
wares, merchandise or services.
Prior Code 16-1.2.8; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.130 License Does Not Permit Business Otherwise Prohibited
The payment of a license tax required by the provisions of this chapter, and its
acceptance by the City and the issuance of such license to any person shall not entitle the
holder thereof to carry on any business unless the person has complied with all the
requirements of this code and all other applicable laws, and shall not entitle the holder to carry
on any business in any building or on any premises designated in such license in the event such
building or premises are situated in a zone, or locality, in which the conduct of such business is
in violation of any law.
Prior Code 16-1.2.9; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (8) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.140 Legal Impediments
Whenever it reasonably appears to the collector that an application for a business
license involves a proposed business activity with respect to which other permit or licensing
requirements are applicable under local, state or federal laws, ordinances or regulations, before
such business activity could lawfully be conducted in the city or at the particular location
proposed, the collector shall so inform the applicant, and ascertain whether, in view of such
circumstances the applicant desires to withdraw the application pending removal of the legal
impediments. In the event the applicant nonetheless insists upon submitting the application, the
collector shall accept the proffered tax payment, and issue a receipt therefore which shall
contain language clearly stating that such receipt is not to be deemed in any way an official
sanction for the conducting of the proposed business.
Prior Code 16-1.2.10; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.145 Prohibition on Licenses for Cannabis-Related Businesses Except for
Medical Cannabis Dispensaries Authorized Under Chapter 5.94,
Cannabis Delivery Services Authorized Under Chapter 5.96, and
Cannabis Testing, Distribution, and Manufacturing Facilities
Authorized Under Chapter 5.98
A. All forms of cannabis-related businesses in the City of Vista are prohibited except
for medical cannabis dispensaries described in paragraph C, and entitled to receive licenses
pursuant to Chapter 5.94, cannabis delivery services described in paragraph D, and entitled to
receive licenses pursuant to Chapter 5.96, and cannabis testing, distribution, and manufacturing
facilities described in paragraph E, and entitled to receive licenses pursuant to Chapter 5.98.
B. Except for licenses issued to cannabis-related businesses as provided in
paragraphs C through E, no business or other type of license may be issued to a cannabisrelated
business of any sort.
C. When an applicant for a medical cannabis dispensary establishes that all
requirements have been met for issuance of a license that are contained in Chapter 5.94 and
State law, the City will issue a license for the medical cannabis business pursuant to this
Chapter.
D. When an applicant for cannabis delivery services establishes that all
requirements have been met for issuance of a license that are contained in Chapter 5.96 and
State law, the City will issue a license for the cannabis delivery services pursuant to this
Chapter.
E. When an applicant for cannabis testing, distribution, and manufacturing facilities
establishes that all requirements have been met for issuance of a license that are contained in
Chapter 5.98 and State law, the City will issue a license for the cannabis testing, distribution,
and manufacturing facilities pursuant to this Chapter.
Ord. No. 2018-18, Added 12/11/18; Ord. No. 2020-05, Amended 4/28/20)
Section 5.04.149A Article II. Administration
Section 5.04.150 Application - First License
A. Upon a person making application for the first license to be issued under the
provisions of this chapter or for a newly established business, such person shall furnish to the
collector a sworn statement, upon a form provided by the collector, setting forth the following
information:
1. The exact nature or kind of business for which a license is requested.
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (9) ( Vista 1/1/21)
2. The place where such business is to be carried on, and if the same is not
to be carried on at any permanent place of business, the places of residences of the owners of
same.
3. In the event that application is made for the issuance of a license to a
person doing business under a fictitious name, the application shall set forth the names and
places of residences of those owning said business.
4. In the event that the application is made for the issuance of a license to a
corporation or a partnership, the application shall set forth the names and places of residences
of the officers or partners thereof.
5. In all cases where the amount of license tax to be paid is measured by
gross receipts, the application shall set forth such information as may be therein required and as
may be reasonably necessary to determine the amount of the license tax to be paid by the
applicant.
6. Any further information which the collector may reasonably require to
enable him to issue the type of license applied for.
B. If the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant is measured by gross
receipts, he shall estimate the gross receipts for the tax period to be covered by the license to
be issued. Such estimate, if accepted by the collector as reasonable, shall be used in
determining the amount of license tax to be paid by the applicant; provided, however, the
amount of the license tax so determined shall be tentative only, and such person shall, within 30
days after the expiration of the tax period for which such license was issued, furnish the
collector with a sworn statement, upon a form furnished by the collector, showing the gross
receipts during the tax period of such license, and the license tax for such tax period shall be
finally ascertained by the collector after deducting from the payment found to be due, the
amount paid at the time such license was issued, and paid within 30 days after such
ascertainment.
Prior Code 16-2.1.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.160 Renewal License
A. The applicant for renewal of a license shall submit to the collector for his
guidance in ascertaining the amount of the license tax to be paid by the applicant, a sworn
statement, upon a form to be provided by the collector, setting forth the actual amount of gross
receipts for the entirety of the calendar year next preceding the tax period to be covered by the
renewal license if the amount of tax to be paid is measured by gross receipts, and further, such
information concerning the applicants business during such next preceding calendar year as
may be reasonably required by the collector to assist him to ascertain the amount of the license
tax to be paid by said applicant pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
B. If the amount of tax to be paid by the business for which application for renewal
of a license is being made is measured by gross receipts and said business has not been
carried on for the entirety of the calendar year next preceding the tax period to be covered by
the renewal license, the applicant shall submit an estimate of the gross receipts of the business
pursuant to Section 5.04.150 and the procedure set forth in the Subsection B of said section
shall be applicable.
Prior Code 16-2.1.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (10) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.170 Misrepresentation
No person shall misrepresent to any officer or employee of the City any material fact in
procuring any license provided for in this code.
Prior Code 16-2.1.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.180 Statements and Records
A. No statements shall be conclusive as to the matters set forth therein, nor shall
the filing of the same preclude the City from collecting by appropriate action such sum as is
actually due and payable under the provisions of this chapter. Such statement and each of the
several items therein contained shall be subject to audit and verification by the collector, his
deputies, or authorized employees of the City, who are authorized to examine, audit, and
inspect such books and records of any licensee or applicant for license, as may be reasonably
necessary to verify or ascertain the amount of license tax due. In the event that it is necessary
for the collector to examine, audit or inspect the books or records of any licensee, the licensee
shall pay all costs of such examination, audit or inspection.
B. All persons subject to the provisions of this chapter shall keep complete records
of business transactions, including sales, receipts, purchases, and other expenditures, and shall
retain all such records for examination by the collector. Such records shall be maintained for a
period of at least three years. No person required to keep records under this section shall
refuse to allow reasonable requests of authorized representatives of the collector to examine
said records at reasonable times and places.
Prior Code 16-2.1.4; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 79-38, Amended 9/10/79)
Section 5.04.190 Information Confidential
A. It is unlawful for the collector or any person having any administrative duty under
the provisions of this chapter to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operations or information obtained by an investigation of records and equipment of any person
required to obtain a license, or pay a license tax, or any other person visited or examined in the
discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any
particular thereof set forth in any statement or application, or to permit any statement or
application, or copy or either, or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be
seen or examined by any person; provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent:
1. The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by,
another City official, employee or agent for collection of taxes for the sole purpose of
administering or enforcing any provisions of this chapter, or collecting taxes imposed by this
code.
2. The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by, federal
or state officials, or the tax officials of another city or county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists,
or to a grand jury or court of law, upon subpoena.
3. The disclosure of information and results of examination of records of
particular taxpayers, or relating to particular taxpayers, to a court of law in a proceeding brought
to determine the existence or amount of any license tax liability of the particular taxpayers to the
City.
4. The disclosure after the filing of a written request to that effect, to the
taxpayer himself, or to his successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (11) ( Vista 1/1/21)
and guarantors, if directly interested, of information as to the items included in the measure of
any paid tax, any unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties;
further provided, however, that the City Attorney approves each such disclosure and that the
collector may refuse to make any disclosure referred to in this paragraph when in his
reasonable opinion the public interest would suffer thereby.
5. The disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom licenses
have been issued, and the general type or nature of their business.
6. The disclosure by way of public meeting or otherwise of such information
as may be reasonably necessary to the City Council in order to permit it to be fully advised as to
the facts:
a. Which are relevant to any appeal.
b. When a taxpayer files a claim for refund of license taxes.
c. Submits an offer of compromise with regard to a claim asserted
against him by the City for license taxes.
d. When acting upon any other matter within the scope of the powers
of the City Council.
7. The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or business
done in the city.
Prior Code 16-2.1.5; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.200 Failure to File Statement or Corrected Statement
A. If any person fails to file any required statement within the time prescribed, or if
after reasonable demand therefore made by the collector he fails to file a corrected statement,
or if any person subject to the tax imposed by this chapter fails to apply for a license, the
collector may make a reasonable determination of the amount of license tax due from such
person by means of such information as he may be able to obtain.
B. If the collector is not satisfied with the information supplied in statements or
applications filed, he may make a reasonable determination of the amount of any license tax
due by means of any information he may be able to obtain.
C. If such a determination is made, the collector shall give a notice of the amount so
assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post Office at Vista,
California, postage prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed at his last known address.
Prior Code 16-2.1.6; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.210 Appeal
Except as provided under section 5.04.410, any person aggrieved by any decision of the
collector made pursuant to this chapter may appeal such decision to the City Manager by filing a
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days after notice of said decision has been
given by the collector. The City Manager shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal. The City Clerk shall give notice to such person of the time and place of hearing by
serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States Post Office at Vista, California,
postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his last known address. The City Manager shall
have authority to determine all questions raised on such appeal. The City Manager shall
consider all evidence produced, shall make findings thereon and shall render a decision. Such
decision shall be final and conclusive. No such decision shall conflict with any substantive
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 16-2.1.7; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 92-1, Amended, 2/11/92; Ord. No.
2011-8, Amended, 10/25/11)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (12) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.220 Additional Power of Collector
In addition to all other powers conferred upon him, the collector has the power, for good
cause shown, to extend the time for filing any required sworn statement or application for a
period not exceeding 30 days, and in such case to waive any penalty that would otherwise have
accrued.
Prior Code 16-2.1.8; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.229A Article III. Licenses
Section 5.04.230 Contents of License
A. Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
make application, as prescribed in this chapter for the same, to the collector of the City, and
upon the payment of the prescribed license tax the collector shall issue to such person a license
which shall contain the following information:
1. The name of the business licensed.
2. The place where such business is to be transacted and carried on.
3. The date of the expiration of such license.
4. Such other information as may be necessary for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
B. Whenever the tax imposed under the provisions of this chapter is measured by
the number of vehicles, devices, machines or other pieces of equipment used, or whenever the
license tax is measured by the gross receipts from the operation of such items, the collector
shall issue only one license; provided, that he may issue for each tax period for which the
license tax has been paid one identification sticker, tag, plate or symbol for each item included
in the measure of the tax or used in a business where the tax is measured by the gross receipts
from such items.
Prior Code 16-2.2.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.240 License Nontransferable - Changed Location and Ownership
No license issued pursuant to this chapter is transferable; provided, that where a license
is issued authorizing a person to transact and carry on a business at a particular place, such
licensee may, upon application therefore, have the license amended to authorize the transacting
and carrying on of such business under said license at some other location to which the
business is or is to be moved; provided, further, that transfer, whether by sale or otherwise, to
another person under such circumstances that the real or ultimate ownership after the transfer
is substantially similar to the ownership existing before the transfer, is not prohibited by this
section. For the purpose of this section, stockholders, bondholders, partnerships or other
persons holding an interest in a corporation or other entity defined in this chapter to be a person
are regarded as having the real or ultimate ownership of such corporation or other entity.
Prior Code 16-2.2.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.250 Duplicate License
A duplicate license may be issued by the collector to replace any license previously
issued under the provisions of this chapter which has been lost or destroyed upon the licensee
filing a sworn statement of such fact, and at the time of filing such statement paying to the
collector a duplicate license fee of $3.00.
Prior Code 16-2.2.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (13) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.260 Posting and Keeping Licenses
A. Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of business in
the city shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where such
business is carried on.
B. Any licensee transacting and carrying on business but not operating at a fixed
place of business in the city shall keep the license upon his person at all times while transacting
and carrying on the business for which it is issued.
C. Whenever identifying stickers, tags, plates or symbols have been issued for each
vehicle, device, machine or other piece of equipment included in the measure of a license tax,
the person to whom such stickers, tags, plates or symbols have been issued shall keep firmly
affixed upon each vehicle, device, machine or piece of equipment the identifying sticker, tag,
plate or symbol which has been issued therefore at such locations as are designated by the
collector. Such sticker, tag, plate or symbol shall not be removed from any vehicle, device,
machine or piece of equipment kept in use during the period for which the sticker, tag, plate or
symbol is issued.
D. No person shall fail to affix as required in this section any identifying sticker, tag,
plate or symbol to the vehicle, device, machine or piece of equipment for which it has been
issued at the location designated by the collector, and no person shall give away, sell or transfer
such identifying sticker, tag, plate or symbol to another person, or permit its use by another
person.
Prior Code 16-2.2.4; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.270 License Tax - How and When Payable
A. Unless otherwise provided in Subsection B below or elsewhere in this code, all
annual license taxes, under the provisions of this chapter, are due and payable in advance on
the first day of business and thereafter on the first day of December 2020; provided that annual
license taxes covering new operations other than those for which the measure of the tax is
gross receipts, commenced after the first day of October of any year, may be prorated for the
balance of the tax period. Prorations shall be made on the basis of 30-day months and 365-day
years.
B. Daily license taxes are payable each day in advance.
Prior Code 16-2.3.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 2010-6, Amended 5/11/10; Ord. No.
2020-7, Amended 5/26/20; Ord. No. 2020-11, Amended 8/25/20 and 1/1/2021)
Section 5.04.280 Delinquent Taxes - Penalties
A. For failure to pay a license tax when due, the license collector shall add a 20
percent penalty to the cost of said license tax on January 4, 2021, and if not paid on or before
February 1, 2021, an additional 25 percent penalty shall be added. If, after March 1, 2021, the
license tax is still unpaid, a final notice will be mailed to the licensee advising that if not paid
within ten days of receipt of notice, the amount of license tax and penalty imposed shall be
deemed a debt due the City and subject to enforcement as provided by Section 5.04.440.
B. No license or sticker, tag, plate, or symbol shall be issued, nor one which has
been suspended or revoked shall be reinstated or reissued, to any person, who at the time of
applying therefore is indebted to the City for any delinquent taxes, unless such person, with the
consent of the collector, enters into a written agreement with the City, through the collector, to
pay such delinquent taxes and accrued penalties, plus ten percent simple annual interest,
compounded monthly, upon the unpaid balance, in monthly installments or oftener, extending
over a period not to exceed one year.
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (14) ( Vista 1/1/21)
C. In any agreement so entered upon, such person shall acknowledge the obligation
owed to the City and agree that, in the event of failure to make timely payment of any
installment, the whole amount unpaid shall become immediately due and payable at the option
of the City and that his current license shall be revocable by the collector upon 30 days notice.
In the event legal action is brought by the City to enforce collection of any amount included in
the agreement, such person shall pay all costs of suit incurred by the City or its assignee,
including a reasonable attorneys fee. The execution of such an agreement shall not prevent
the prior accrual of penalties on unpaid balances at the rate provided above in this section, but
no penalties shall accrue on account of taxes included in the agreement, after the execution of
the agreement, provided the payment of the first installment is made, and during such time as
such person is not in breach of the agreement.
Prior Code 16-2.3.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 78-64, Amended 12/6/78; Ord. No.
2020-11, Amended 8/25/20)
Section 5.04.290 Refunds of Overpayments
Except as otherwise required by law, no refund of an overpayment of taxes imposed by
this chapter is allowed in whole or in part unless a claim for refund is filed with the collector
within one year after the alleged overpayment was made. All such claims for refund must be
filed with the collector on forms furnished by the collector and in the manner prescribed by the
collector. Such claim shall be verified or made under penalty of perjury and shall describe in
detail such overpayment and the computation of the over payment. After the filing of such a
claim and upon a determination that an overpayment has been made, the collector shall refund
the amount overpaid.
Prior Code 16-2.3.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 2002-14, Amended 5/9/02)
Section 5.04.299A Article IV. License Taxes
Section 5.04.300 Gross Receipts - Generally
Every person who transacts or carries on any business from a fixed place of business in
the city, other than those businesses enumerated in Sections 5.04.310 and 5.04.320, shall pay
an annual license tax based upon gross receipts equal to $ 15.00 per year or fractional part
thereof for the first $15,000.00 or less of gross receipts, plus:
0.001 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 15,000.00 and not
exceeding $20,000.00; plus
0.0009 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 20,000.00 and not
exceeding $30,000.00; plus
0.0008 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 30,000.00 and not
exceeding $60,000.00; plus
0.0007 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 60,000.00 and not
exceeding $200,000.00; plus
0.0006 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 200,000.00 and not
exceeding $300,000.00; plus
0.0005 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 300,000.00 and not
exceeding $600,000.00; plus
0.0004 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 600,000.00 and not
exceeding $1,500,000.00; plus
0.0003 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $1,500,000.00 and not
exceeding $2,000,000.00; plus
0.0002 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $2,000,000.00.
Prior Code 16-3.1.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (15) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Section 5.04.310 Gross Receipts - Wholesalers, Jobbers, Manufacturers
Every person who transacts or carries on a business as a wholesaler, jobber, or
manufacturer, or as the agent of a wholesaler, jobber, or manufacturer from a fixed place of
business in the city shall pay an annual license tax based upon gross receipts equal to $15.00
per year or fractional part thereof, for the first $15,000 or less of gross receipts plus:
0.0005 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 15,000.00 and not
exceeding $100,000.00; plus
0.00025 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $ 100,000.00 and not
exceeding $200,000.00; plus
0.0001 per year for each dollar of gross receipts in excess of $200,000.00.
Prior Code 16-3.1.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.320 Flat Rate
Every person who transacts or carries on a business enumerated in this chapter from a
fixed place of business in the city shall pay a license tax as follows:
A. Annual Tax: Amount of
Type of Business Annual Tax
Apartment houses and apartment hotels, having three or
more rental units, per rental unit $ 2.50
Arcades:
Up to 50 machines 260.00
Each additional machine 2.00
Auctioneers:
Class A 50.00
Class C 50.00
Auto courts, motels or bungalow courts, having three or
more rental units, per rental unit 2.50
Billboards:
Up to five boards 110.00
Each additional board 40.00
Billiard room and poolroom:
First table 30.00
Each additional table 15.00
Boardinghouse:
Serving three to 15 persons 15.00
Serving over 15 persons 25.00
Cabaret:
Class A 100.00
Class B 75.00
Class C 50.00
Class D 37.50
Dances, teenage:
Class A 15.00
Dance halls, public:
Class A 30.00
Class B 25.00
Class C 20.00
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (16) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Class D 15.00
Solicitations by telephone 100.00
Motels, per rental unit 2.50
Solicitors, peddlers and itinerant merchants 50.00
Taxicab service 50.00
For each taxicab 5.00
Trailer park, trailer court or mobile home park:
For each trailer or mobile home space 5.00
B. Daily license tax:
Auctioneers:
Class B 10.00
Dances, nonprofit service organizations 1.00
Dances, teenage:
Class B 5.00
Type of Business Annual Tax
Distributor of handbills, dodgers, posters, pamphlets or
other advertisements of any kind, advertising a business not licensed by
the City.
5.00
Street ballyhoo or advertising by means of any vehicle or
airplane containing amplifiers, phonographs, loudspeakers, music rolls,
microphones, broadcasting, radio, public address system, music of any
description, operating upon the public streets or public grounds of the City. 50.00
Theatrical road shows or athletic or musical performances,
vaudeville or other transient entertainment, except when presented in a
licensed motion picture or other theater. 10.00
Prior Code 16-3.1.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 78-64, Amended 12/6/78)
Section 5.04.330 Retail Operation by Vehicle
A. Every person not having a fixed place of business in the city who transacts or
carries on any of the following described retail or service businesses or occupations utilizing
vehicles therein shall pay an annual license tax for the first vehicle so utilized in the amount
specified below:
Bread and bakers supplies $ 80.00
Concrete or road mix 100.00
Dairy or ice cream 80.00
Dry cleaning 100.00
Laundry 100.00
Linen service 20.00
Meat distributor 80.00
Petroleum products (home delivery) 20.00
Retail bottled water supply 80.00
Retail ice supply 80.00
Rock and sand 100.00
Transfer or delivery service 20.00
Water softener service 100.00
Any other vehicular retail or service business not herein specified 40.00
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (17) ( Vista 1/1/21)
For each additional vehicle so utilized, the annual license tax shall be 60 percent
of the tax for the first vehicle.
B. Every such person may elect upon application for a license or renewal to pay a
license tax in lieu of the tax specified in Subsection A of this section, in the amount payable
pursuant to Section 5.04.300 measured by gross receipts attributable to business done in the
city.
Prior Code 16-3.1.4; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.340 Wholesale Delivery by Vehicle
Every person not having a fixed place of business in the city who transacts or carries on
any business of selling or delivering goods, wares or merchandise at wholesale to any person in
the city, shall pay an annual license tax equal to $20.00 for the first vehicle so utilized, plus
12.00 for each additional vehicle so utilized, provided that any such person may elect upon
application for a license or renewal to pay a license tax in lieu thereof in the amount payable
pursuant to Section 5.04.310 measured by gross receipts attributable to business done in the
city.
Prior Code 16-3.1.5; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.350 Interpretation
A. As used in Sections 5.04.330 and 5.04.340, the term  each additional vehicle
shall not be construed to mean each separate vehicle; but the measure of the tax imposed by
such sections for additional vehicles shall be the average number of additional vehicles used in
the business in the city.
B. The provisions of Sections 5.04.330 and 5.04.340 are not to be construed as
imposing a tax upon vehicles, but as a method of classification of businesses and distinguishing
between those businesses maintaining a fixed place of business and those in the conduct of
which vehicles are used but do not have a fixed place of business in the city.
Prior Code 16-3.1.6; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.360 Other Outside Business
Every person not having a fixed place of business in the city who transacts or carries on
business in the city and is not otherwise subject to a license tax imposed by any of the other
sections of this Article IV, shall pay a license tax in the amount prescribed in this article for
persons engaged in the same type of business from and having a fixed place of business in the
city.
Prior Code 16-3.1.7; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.370 Intercity Business
Any person who is engaged in intercity business may receive a refund, following the end
of any tax period, of a portion of the license tax previously paid for such period, if such tax was
based on the gross receipts of the entire business including receipts attributable to business
outside of the city, by filing written application therefore with the collector. Such refund shall be
equal to total license tax previously paid for such period multiplied by the percentage of the
gross receipts of the person attributable to business done outside of the city. Such application
must be accompanied by a sworn statement of the licensee stating his total gross receipts, his
gross receipts attributable to business done in the city and his gross receipts attributable to
business done outside of the city, and any other information the collector may reasonably
request in order to make the determination required pursuant to this section.
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (18) ( Vista 1/1/21)
Prior Code 16-3.1.8; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.380 Vending Machine Business
Every person whose business is limited exclusively to renting, leasing or operating coinoperated
merchandise vending machines, dispensing tangible personal property such as
cigarettes, candy and soft drinks, shall pay a license tax based upon the annual gross receipts
directly attributable to renting, leasing or operating such machines within the city.
Prior Code 16-3.1.9; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.390 Measure of Tax
A. With respect to those businesses as to which the amount of tax to be paid is
measured by gross receipts, the gross receipts which are the measure of the tax are those
received during the tax period to be covered by the license to be issued. However, since such
receipts are not known when the tax is due, the amount of such tax to be paid on the due date
shall be based on the gross receipts of the business received during the calendar year next
preceding such tax period if the business was carried on during the entirety of such next
preceding calendar year, and otherwise shall be based on an estimate of the gross receipts for
the tax period provided for in Section 5.04.150.
B. If the amount of tax paid was based on the gross receipts for such next
preceding calendar year, the person making such payment may apply to the collector for a
refund pursuant to Section 5.04.290 if the gross receipts for such calendar year were more than
the actual gross receipts received during the tax period.
C. If the amount of tax paid was based on an estimate of gross receipts, the
procedure for final ascertainment of the correct amount of the tax and the collection of any
underpayment provided in Section 5.04.150 shall be applicable; provided, however, that if such
final ascertainment results in the licensee being entitled to a refund, the procedure for
application, determination and payment provided in Section 5.04.290 shall be applicable.
Prior Code 16.3.1.10; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.400 Gasoline Sales
Prior Code 16-3.1.11; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 92-1, Repealed, 2/11/92)
Section 5.04.409A Article V. Enforcement
Section 5.04.410 Reclassification
A. In any case where a licensee or an applicant for a license believes that his
individual business is not assigned to the proper classification under Article IV because of
circumstances peculiar to it, as distinguished from other businesses of the same kind, he may
apply to the collector for reclassification. Such application shall contain such information as the
collector may reasonably deem necessary and require in order to determine whether the
applicants individual business is properly classified. The collector shall then conduct an
investigation following which he shall assign the applicants individual business to the
classification shown to be proper on the basis of such investigation. The proper classification is
that classification which most nearly fits the applicants individual business. The reclassification
shall not be retroactive, but shall apply at the time of the next regularly ensuing calculation of
the applicants tax. No business shall be classified more than once in any one tax period.
B. The collector shall notify the applicant of the action taken on the application for
reclassification. Such notice shall be given by serving it personally or by depositing in the
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (19) ( Vista 1/1/21)
United States Post Office at Vista, California, postage prepaid, addressed to the applicant at his
last known address. Such applicant may, within 15 days after the mailing or serving of such
notice, make written request to the City Clerk for a hearing before the City Manager of his
application for reclassification. If such request is made within the time prescribed, the City
Manager shall thereupon fix a time and place of hearing application for reclassification. The
City Clerk shall give the applicant at least ten days notice of the time and place of the hearing in
the manner prescribed above for serving notice of the action taken on the application for
reclassification. The City Manager shall consider all evidence adduced and his or her findings
and decision thereon shall be final. Written notice of such findings and decision shall be served
upon the applicant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of the action taken on
the application for reclassification.
Prior Code 16-3.2.1; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75; Ord. No. 2011-8, Amended, 10/25/11)
Section 5.04.420 Rules and Regulations
The collector may make reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 16-3.2.2; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.430 Enforcement Generally
A. It is the duty of the collector, and he is authorized by ordinance, to enforce each
and all of the provisions of this chapter, and the Chief of Police shall render such assistance in
the enforcement of such provisions as may from time to time be required by the collector, the
City Manager, or the City Council.
B. The collector, in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him hereunder, and
acting through his deputies or duly authorized assistants, may examine or cause to be
examined all places of business in the city to ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with.
C. The collector and each and all of his assistants and any police officer shall have
the power and authority to enter, free of charge, and at any reasonable time, any place of
business required to be licensed in this chapter and request an exhibition of its license. Any
person having such license theretofore issued, in his possession or under his control, who
willfully fails to exhibit the same on demand, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the
penalties provided for by the provisions of this chapter. It is the duty of the collector and each of
his assistants to cause a complaint to be filed against any and all persons found to be violating
any of said provisions.
Prior Code 16-3.2.3; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.440 License Tax a Debt
The amount of any license tax and penalty imposed by the provisions of this chapter are
deemed a debt due the City. Upon recommendation of the collector and the approval of the City
Manager, such debt, when delinquent, may be assigned for collection, or an action may be
commenced in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction, including the small
claims court, for the amount of any delinquent license tax and penalties. The debtor shall pay
all costs of suit incurred by the City or its assignee, including reasonable attorneys fees.
Prior Code 16-3.2.4; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.450 Enforcement - Subcontractors
Vista Municipal Code
5.04 (20) ( Vista 1/1/21)
As an aid in enforcement of the provisions of this chapter with respect to construction
contractors and subcontractors, at the time of applying for any building or grading permit or
requesting final inspection of any construction project, the owner or contractor so applying or
requesting shall furnish the collector a written list of the names and addresses of all contractors
and subcontractors known at that time who will be or have been engaged in working on the
project which is the subject of the applied-for permit or requested final inspection.
Prior Code 16-3.2.5; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.460 Remedies Cumulative
All remedies prescribed under this chapter are cumulative and the use of one or more
remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 16-3.2.6; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.470 Effect of Mistakes
In no case shall any mistake of the collector or any deputy or assistant thereof, in stating
or collecting the amount of any tax prescribed in this chapter, prevent or prejudice any collection
by the City of this amount actually due, together with costs of collection, including reasonable
attorneys fees as fixed by court, nor shall any such mistake prevent or prejudice the
prosecution of any person for the violation of any provision of this chapter.
Prior Code 16-3.2.7; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.480 Effect of Chapter on Past Actions - Unexpired Licenses
Neither the adoption of this chapter nor its superseding of any portion of any other
ordinance of the City shall in any manner be construed to affect prosecution for violation of any
other ordinance committed prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
nor be construed as a waiver of any license or any penal provision applicable to any such
violation, nor be construed to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required by any
ordinance to be posted, filed or deposited, and all rights and obligations thereunto appertaining
shall continue in full force and effect.
Where a license for revenue purposes has been issued to any person by the City and
the tax paid for the business for which the license has been issued under the provisions of any
ordinance heretofore enacted and the term of such license has not expired, then the license tax
prescribed for said business by the ordinance codified in this chapter shall not be payable until
the expiration of the term of such unexpired license.
Prior Code 16-3.2.8; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Section 5.04.490 Violation - Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or knowingly or intentionally
misrepresenting to any officer or employee of this City any material fact in procuring the license
or permit provided for in this chapter is deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1.16.010 of this code.
Prior Code 16-3.2.9; Ord. No. 75-58, Amended 12/22/75)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.08
Alcoholic Beverage Control Regulations
Sections:
5. 08.010 Purpose
5. 08.020 Signs or Notices - Posting
5. 08.030 Signs or Notices - Placement
5. 08.040 Signs or Notices - Language
5. 08.050 Consuming or Possessing Alcoholic Beverages in Public
5. 08.060 Enforcement
Section 5. 08.010 Purpose
The Surgeon General of the United States has advised women who are pregnant or
considering pregnancy, not to drink alcoholic beverages. Research indicates that alcohol
consumption during pregnancy, especially in the early months, can harm the fetus and result in
birth defects including mental retardation, facial abnormalities, and other defects involving heart
and bone structure. In order to serve the public health, safety and welfare, the purpose of this
chapter is to educate the public by requiring warning signs to be placed at all locations where
alcoholic beverages are sold to the public.
Prior Code 12- 8; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
Section 5. 08.020 Signs or Notices - Posting
Any person or entity who owns, operates, manages, leases or rents premises offering
wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages for sale or dispensing for consideration to the public
shall cause a sign or notice to be permanently posted or displayed on the premises as provided
in this chapter. The sign or notice shall read as follows:
PREGNANCY AND ALCOHOL DO NOT MIX-DRINKING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES, INCLUDING WINE AND BEER, DURING PREGNANCY CAN
CAUSE BIRTH DEFECTS.
Except as specified in Section 5. 08. 030, or in rules and regulations adopted by the
County Department of Health Services, a sign or notice as required in this section shall not be
smaller than eight and one- half inches wide by five and one- half inches long, nor shall any
lettering thereon be less than three- eighths inch in height.
Prior Code 12- 9; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
Section 5. 08.030 Signs or Notices - Placement
A sign or notice required by Section 5. 08. 020 shall be placed as follows:
A. Where the sale or dispensing of wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages to the
public is primarily intended for consumption off the premises, at least one sign shall be so
placed as to assure that it is conspicuously displayed so as to be readable at all points of
purchase.
B. Where the sale of wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages to the public is
primarily intended for consumption on the premises, at least one sign shall be placed to assure
that it is conspicuously displayed so as to be readable in each public restroom.
Prior Code 12- 10; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
5. 08 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 08.040 Signs or Notices - Language
In the event a substantial number of the public patronizing a premises offering for sale or
dispensing wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages uses a language other than English as a
primary language, an additional sign or notice, as is required by Section 5. 08.020, shall be
worded in the primary language or languages involved.
Prior Code 12- 11; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
Section 5. 08.050 Consuming or Possessing Alcoholic Beverages in Public
A. No person shall consume or be in possession of any unsealed or open alcoholic
beverage in any public place, street, sidewalk, alley, highway, arcade, court or in any vehicle
within 500 feet of any off-sale licensed public premises within the city.
B. This section does not in any way prohibit the lawful use and/ or possession of
liquor within the premises of a properly licensed on- sale establishment.
Prior Code 19- 7. 2; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
Section 5. 08.060 Enforcement
A. The City Manager, or such officer or officers as the City Manager designates,
along with such officer as designated by Chapter 4 of Division 1 of Title 6 of the San Diego
County Code, are jointly responsible for the enforcement of compliance with this chapter,
including any rules validly adopted for the implementation of this chapter. The County
Department of Health Services has the authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
the implementation of this chapter, including rules and regulations for alternative signs and
placement of required signs.
B. The San Diego County Department of Health Services shall make warning signs
available to vendors of alcoholic beverages. Persons or entities may, however, at their own
expense, prepare and post signs meeting the requirements of this article. In no event shall the
prescribed language of the warning sign be altered.
Prior Code 12- 12; Ord. No. 87- 22, Amended 7/ 13/ 87)
5. 08 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 10
Alcoholic Beverages - Responsible Beverage Sales and Service
Sections:
5. 10.010 Definitions
5. 10.020 Responsible Beverage Service Training Required - Proof
5. 10.030 Violation - Penalty
Section 5. 10. 010 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings set forth in
this section:
A. " Alcoholic Beverage" shall have the same meaning as in the California
Business and Professions Code, Section 23004, or any successor section.
B. " Alcohol Outlet" means any physical location or structure from which any
alcoholic beverage may be sold, delivered, or served at retail pursuant to a license granted by
the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
C. " Business Certificate" means a certificate or license authorizing a business to
operate within the City of Vista, California.
D. " Licensee" means any person or entity that has a license for the retail sale,
delivery, or service of alcoholic beverages from the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control.
E. " Manager" means the person, regardless of job title or description, who has
discretionary powers to organize, direct, carry on, control, or direct the operation of an alcoholic
outlet.
F. " Server" means any person who, as part of his or her employment, sells, serves,
or delivers any alcoholic beverage.
G. " Patron" means a customer who purchases alcohol through a sale, service, or
delivery.
H. " Responsible Beverage Sales and Service Training" or " RBSS Training"
means a training program conducted by the California Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control or by a RBSS Training Provider certified by the California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control to train alcohol licensees, their managers and servers in responsible alcoholic
beverage sales and service methods and practices.
Ord. No. 2009- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 09)
Section 5. 10. 020 Responsible Beverage Service Training Required - Proof
A. No alcohol outlet may serve, sell, or arrange delivery to a patron any alcoholic
beverages unless a manager, assistant manager, or lead employee who has completed a
Responsible Beverage Service and Sales Training course is on the premises.
B. No licensee, manager, or server shall sell, serve, or deliver to a patron any
alcoholic beverage unless he or she has completed RBSS Training. However, licensees, their
managers and servers shall have 90 days from the date of beginning of such activities or the
effective dates of this chapter, whichever is later, to complete RBSS Training. Businesses
existing as of the effective date of this ordinance shall have 180 days from the effective date of
this ordinance to comply with this chapter. Thereafter, all said businesses shall have 90 days
from the date of the beginning of such activities to comply with this chapter.
5. 10 ( 1) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Certification received from an RBSS Training program will be considered valid for
a period of two years from the date of certification.
D. Licensees shall be responsible for ensuring that all managers and servers they
employ comply with this section.
E. Licensees shall maintain on the premises a file of proof of completion of the
RBSS Training by the licensee, managers, and servers that shall be available for inspection by
any peace officer or other enforcement officer during regular business hours. The proof of
completion shall include: ( 1) The effective date of hire; ( 2) course completion date and, if
applicable, the course renewal date; ( 3) the name of the certified RBSS Training completed; ( 4)
a copy of each training certificate, if available; and ( 5) identifying information of the licensee,
managers, and servers, including the name, address, phone number, and California driver's
license number, if applicable.
F. The City shall provide to all applicants for a business certificate that are alcohol
licensees, as defined in this chapter, a summary of the requirements of this chapter together
with its penalties for violation prior to issuing a business certificate or renewal.
Ord. No. 2009- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 09)
Section 5. 10. 030 Violation - Penalty
A. Violation of any provision of this chapter or failure to comply with any requirement
of this chapter is an infraction and shall be punishable in accordance with the provisions of
Section 1. 16. 010 of the Vista Municipal Code. At the discretion of the prosecutor, a violation of
this chapter may be charged as a misdemeanor.
B. Civil Action. In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, any
violation of this chapter may be enforced by civil action brought by the City Attorney in the name
of the People of the State of California as a public nuisance under California Civil Code Section
731.
C. Administrative Citation. Alternatively, any violation of this chapter may be
enforced by administrative action brought by the City pursuant to Chapter 1. 13 of the Vista
Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2009- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 09)
5. 10 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 12
Auctions and Auctioneers
Sections:
5. 12.010 Definitions
5. 12.020 Exempt Sales
5. 12.030 Prohibited Acts
5. 12.040 Announcement of Terms and Conditions
5. 12.050 Purchaser to be Furnished Invoice Stating Warranties, Etc.
5. 12.060 Close-Out, Etc., Sales
5. 12.070 Investigation of Applications
5. 12.080 Auctions of Jewelry - Prohibited; Exceptions
5. 12.090 Same -Tagging Requirements; Statement of Sales
5. 12. 100 Required; Exceptions; Duration of Sale
5. 12. 110 Classes of Licenses
5. 12. 120 Application - Generally
5. 12. 130 Same - Class A
5. 12. 140 Same - Class B
5. 12. 150 Same - Class C
5. 12. 160 Bond Required for Class A or Class C Licenses
5. 12. 170 Issuance
Section 5. 12. 010 Definitions
Prior Code 4A- 1; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 020 Exempt Sales
Prior Code 4A-2; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 030 Prohibited Acts
Prior Code 4A-3; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 040 Announcement of Terms and Conditions
Prior Code 4A-4; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 050 Purchaser to be Furnished Invoice Stating Warranties, Etc.
Prior Code 4A-5; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 060 Close-out, Etc., Sales
Prior Code 4A-6; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 070 Investigation of Applications
Prior Code 4A-7; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
5. 12 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 12. 080 Auctions of Jewelry - Prohibited; Exceptions
Prior Code 4A-8; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 090 Same - Tagging Requirements; Statement of Sales
Prior Code 4A-9; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 100 Required; Exceptions; Duration of Sale
Prior Code 4A-10; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 110 Classes of Licenses
Prior Code 4A- 11; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 120 Application - Generally
Prior Code 4A-12; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 130 Same - Class A
Prior Code 4A- 13; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 05/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 92-
1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 140 Same - Class B
Prior Code 4A-14; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 150 Same - Class C
Prior Code 4A-15; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 160 Bond Required for Class A or Class C Licenses
Prior Code 4A-16; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
Section 5. 12. 170 Issuance
Prior Code 4A- 18; Ord. No. 66- 21, Amended 8/ 16/ 66; Ord. No. 92- 1, Repealed, 02/ 11/ 92)
5. 12 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 16
Bingo and Similar Games
Sections:
5. 16.010 Bingo Authorized
5. 16.020 Definitions
5. 16.030 License Required
5. 16.040 Term of License
5. 16.050 Application and Fees
5. 16.060 Application Investigation
5. 16.070 License Not Transferable
5. 16.080 Limitations
5. 16.090 Inspection
5. 16. 100 Application Denial, License Suspension or Revocation
5. 16. 110 Appeal Procedure
5. 16. 120 Violation - Penalty
Section 5. 16. 010 Bingo Authorized
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, this chapter is adopted pursuant to
Section 19 of Article IV of the California Constitution and Section 326.5 of the Penal Code in
order to make the game of bingo lawful under the terms and conditions in the following sections
of this chapter.
Prior Code 3- 17; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77)
Section 5. 16. 020 Definitions
Whenever in this chapter the following terms are used they shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section:
Bingo" means a game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of
designated numbers or symbols on a card which conform to numbers or symbols selected at
random. The game of bingo also includes cards having numbers or symbols which are
concealed and preprinted in a manner for distribution of prizes. The winning cards shall not be
known prior to the game by any person participating in the playing or operation of the bingo
game. All such preprinted cards shall bear the legend: " For sale or use only in a bingo game
authorized under California law and pursuant to local ordinance."
Authorized Organization" means an organization that is:
1. Exempted from the payment of the bank and corporation tax by Sections
23701 a, 23701 b, 23701 d, 23701 e, 23701 f, 23701 g and 23701( 1) of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.
2. A mobile home park association.
3. A senior citizens' organization.
4. In order to be an authorized organization, an applicant must have owned
or leased, or had donated to its use, property within the city that has been used by the applicant
as an office or for the performance of the purposes for which the applicant is organized for at
least 12 consecutive months immediately preceding the filing of such application, unless the
applicant is an organization whose articles of incorporation or articles of association were filed
with the Secretary of State for the State of California within 12 months preceding the date of
5. 16 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
application and the majority of the board of directors for such organization is composed of
individuals who reside within the city limits.
Licensee" means an authorized organization to which the Sheriff has issued a license
to conduct bingo games pursuant to this chapter.
Minor" means any person under the age of 18 years.
Prior Code 3- 18; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77; Ord. No. 80- 6,
Amended 2/ 25/ 80; Ord. No. 83- 9, Amended 3/ 14/ 83)
Section 5. 16. 030 License Required
It is unlawful for any person to conduct any bingo game in the city unless such person is
an authorized organization and has a valid and subsisting license issued pursuant to this
chapter.
Prior Code 3- 19; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77)
Section 5. 16. 040 Term of License
Each license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire on June 30,
regardless of date of issuance, unless prior thereto revoked by the City.
Prior Code 3- 20; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77; Ord. No. 80- 6,
Amended 2/ 25/ 80; Ord. No. 2010- 7, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10)
Section 5. 16. 050 Application and Fees
A. An investigation fee in the amount of $ 50 shall be paid for an original bingo
license. The appropriate fee shall accompany the submission of each application and shall be
used to defray the costs of the issuance of such license.
B. An additional fee of one percent of the monthly gross receipts over $ 5, 000
derived from bingo games shall be collected monthly by the issuing officer (City of Vista).
C. For those businesses having gross receipts of $ 5, 000 or less, an annual fee of
10 shall be paid for license renewal.
Prior Code 3- 21; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77; Ord. No. 80- 6,
Amended 2/ 25/ 80)
Section 5. 16. 060 Application Investigation
A. Upon receipt of an application for a license the Sheriff may send copies of such
application to any office or department which the Sheriff deems essential in order to carry out a
proper investigation of the applicant.
B. The Sheriff and every officer and department to which an application is issued
shall investigate the truth of the matters set forth in the application, the nature of the applicant,
the membership in the applicant of the persons to operate the games, and may examine the
premises to be used for the bingo game. If the Sheriff is satisfied the requirements of this
chapter are and will be met, the application shall be approved, and the Sheriff shall issue the
license.
C. If an application for a license is denied, one- half of any license fee paid shall be
refunded to the organization.
Prior Code 3- 22; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77)
5. 16 ( 2) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 16. 070 License not Transferable
Each license issued under this chapter shall be issued to a specific authorized
organization to conduct bingo games at a specific location and shall in no event be transferable
from one person to another or from one location to another.
Prior Code 3- 23; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77)
Section 5. 16. 080 Limitations
An authorized organization shall conduct a bingo game only on property owned or
leased by it, or property whose use is donated to the organization and which property is used by
such organization for an office or for the performance of the purposes for which the organization
is organized. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that the property owned or
leased by the organization be used or whose use is donated to the organization be used or
leased exclusively by or donated exclusively to such organization.
A. It is a misdemeanor for any person to receive or pay a profit, wage or salary from
any bingo game. Security personnel employed by the organization conducting the bingo game
may be paid from the revenues of bingo games as provided in Subsections F and I.
B. A violation of Subsection A of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $ 10, 000, which fine shall be deposited in the general fund of the City. A violation of any
provision of this section, other than Subsection A, is a misdemeanor.
C. The City, which enacted the ordinance authorizing the bingo game, may bring an
action to enjoin a violation of this section.
D. No minors are allowed to participate in any bingo game.
E. All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to the members of the
authorized organization.
F. A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the authorized
organization which organized it. Such members shall be limited to those set forth in the most
recent application for a license or renewal as approved by the Sheriff, and shall not receive a
profit, wage or salary from any bingo game. Only the organization authorized to conduct a
bingo game shall operate such game, or participate in the promotion, supervision or any other
phase of such game. This subdivision does not preclude the employment of security personnel
who are not members of the authorized organization at such bingo game by the organization
conducting the game.
G. No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except the
organization authorized to conduct a bingo game shall hold a financial interest in the conduct of
such bingo game.
H. With respect to organizations exempt from payment of the bank and corporation
tax by Section 23701d of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all profits derived from a bingo game
shall be kept in a special fund or account and shall not be commingled with any other funds or
account. Such profits shall be used only for charitable purposes.
I. With respect to other organizations authorized to conduct bingo games pursuant
to this section, all proceeds derived from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund or
account and shall not be commingled with any other fund or account. Proceeds are the receipts
of bingo games conducted by organizations not within Subsection H. Such proceeds shall be
used only for charitable purposes, except as follows:
1. Such proceeds may be used for prizes.
2. A portion of the proceeds, not to exceed 20% of the proceeds before the
deduction for prizes, or $ 2, 000 per month, whichever is less, may be used for rental of property,
overhead, including the purchase of bingo equipment, administrative expenses, security
equipment and security personnel.
5. 16 ( 3) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Proceeds may be used to pay license fees.
J. No person shall be allowed to participate in a bingo game, unless the person is
physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is being conducted.
K. The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game shall not
exceed $ 250 in cash or kind, or both, for each separate game which is held.
Prior Code 3- 24; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76; Ord. No. 77- 53, Amended 9/ 12/ 77; Ord. No. 80- 6,
Amended 2/ 25/ 80; Ord. no. 81- 79, Amended 12/ 28/ 81; Ord. No. 94- 18, Amended, 08/ 09/ 94)
Section 5. 16. 090 Inspection
The license collector, license inspector and any peace officer of the City shall have free
access to the premises in which any bingo game licensed under this chapter is conducted. The
licensee shall have the bingo license and list of approved staff available for inspection at all
times during any bingo game.
Prior Code 3- 25; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76)
Section 5. 16. 100 Application Denial, License Suspension or Revocation
A. The Sheriff may deny any application for a bingo license, or suspend or revoke a
license if he finds the applicant or licensee or any agent or representative thereof has:
1. Knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statements of a
material fact in the application or in any record or report required to be filed pursuant to this
division; or
2. Violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
B. If after investigation the Sheriff determines that a bingo license should be
suspended or revoked or an application for such license denied, he shall prepare a notice of
suspension, revocation or denial of the application setting forth the reasons for such
suspension, revocation or denial of application. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
applicant' s last address provided in the application or be personally delivered. Any person who
has had an application for a bingo license denied by the Sheriff, or who has had a bingo license
suspended or revoked by the Sheriff may appeal the Sheriff's decision in the manner provided
in this chapter.
Prior Code 3- 26; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76)
Section 5. 16. 110 Appeal Procedure
Whenever an appeal is provided for in this chapter, such appeal shall be filed and
conducted as prescribed in this section:
A. Within 15 calendar days after the date of any suspension, revocation or denial or
other decision of the Sheriff, an aggrieved party may appeal such action by filing with the City
Clerk a written appeal briefly setting forth the reasons why such suspension, revocation or
denial or other decision is not proper.
B. Upon receipt of such written appeal, the City Clerk shall set the matter for
hearing before the City Council within 30 days. At least ten calendar days prior to the date of
the hearing on the appeal, the City Clerk shall notify the appellant and Sheriff of the date and
place of the hearing. The City Clerk is authorized to issue subpoenas and to administer oaths.
At such hearing, the Sheriff and the appellant may present evidence relevant to the suspension,
revocation or denial or other decision of the Sheriff. The City Council shall receive evidence
and shall rule on the admissibility of evidence and on questions of law. The formal rules of
evidence applicable in a court of law shall not apply to such hearing.
5. 16 ( 4) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may uphold the suspension,
revocation or denial or other decision of the Sheriff, or the City Council may reinstate that which
has been suspended or revoked, or allow that which has been denied, or modify or reverse any
other Sheriff's decision which is the subject of the appeal. The City Council' s decision shall be
final.
Prior Code 3- 27; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76)
Section 5. 16. 120 Violation - Penalty
A. It is a misdemeanor for any person to receive a profit, wage or salary from any
bingo game authorized by this chapter. A violation of this subsection is punishable by a fine not
to exceed $ 10, 000, which fine shall be deposited in the general fund of the City.
B. Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter, other than Subsection A of this section, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010
of this Code.
C. All sanctions provided in this chapter are cumulative and not exclusive.
Prior Code 3- 28; Ord. No. 76- 32, Enacted 8/ 9/ 76)
5. 16 ( 5) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.20
Card Rooms and Gambling
Sections:
5. 20.010 Adoption of the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Relating
to Card Rooms and Gambling
Section 5. 20.010 Adoption of the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances
Relating to Card Rooms and Gambling
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of regulating card rooms and
gambling, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
Chapter 1 of Division 7 of Title 3, relating to card rooms and gambling. One copy of the County
Code has been and is now filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is adopted and
incorporated as though fully set out at length in this section, and from the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this section the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of
the city.
Prior Code 19- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 90- 16,
Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
5. 20 ( l) Vista 2/ 11/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.22
Casino Parties
Sections:
5. 22.010 Definitions
5. 22.020 License Required
5. 22.030 Term of License
5. 22.040 Application - Submission and Required Content
5. 22.050 Review of Application
5. 22.060 Denial and Revocation of Licenses
5. 22.070 Appeal
5. 22.080 Operational Requirements
5. 22.090 Violation - Penalties
Section 5. 22.010 Definitions
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
A. " Casino Party" shall mean any event at which three or more persons are
permitted or invited to play games of chance or banking games or percentage games as defined
in Section 330 of the California Penal Code and which are played for no consideration and/ or no
prize.
B. " Casino Managers" shall mean the individuals listed on the license application
who will be present at the event and who will manage, supervise and be responsible for the
operation of the casino party. Casino managers shall be bona fide members of the charitable
organization sponsoring the casino party.
C. " Donation" shall mean a free contribution of any tangible item, goods, wares,
merchandise, money, cash, consideration, services or any other things of value.
D. " Minor" shall mean any person under the age of 18 years.
E. " Prize" shall mean property or merchandise designated by the sponsoring
organization to be distributed or awarded to a person selected by means of a lottery or raffle.
F. " Chips or Scrip" shall mean simulated paper currency or tokens having no
value.
G. " Advertisement" shall mean any printed material, fliers, signs, pamphlets,
leaflets, handbills, verbal broadcasting, or any other method normally utilized to gain the
attention of the public.
H. " Raffle or Lottery" shall mean any scheme for the disposal or distribution of
property or merchandise by chance for no consideration.
I. Non- Profit Charitable Organization" shall mean an organization exempted
from the payment of the bank and corporation tax and by Sections 23701d, 23701e, or 23701f
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.020 License Required
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any casino party in the City of Vista unless
such person is a member of a non- profit charitable organization, as defined in this section,
acting on behalf of such non- profit charitable organization, and such organization has been
issued a license as provided by this chapter. Each individual organization eligible for licensing
under this section will be limited to two licenses in one calendar year. A license issued pursuant
5. 22 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
to this chapter is not transferable from person to person or from place to place.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.030 Term of License
A casino party license shall be issued for a period of not more than 12 consecutive hours
between noon and midnight on a single calendar day.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 2002)
Section 5. 22.040 Application - Submission and Required Content
A. Application for a license shall be made to the Sheriff on forms provided by the
Sheriff. The completed application must be made to the Sheriff at least 30 days prior to the
issue date of the license. Proof of the organization' s tax exempt status must be presented to
the issuing officer with the application.
B. The application form shall contain the following information:
1. The name and address of the company or individual furnishing gaming
equipment or devices. Name and date of birth of persons operating each game or device and of
all volunteers assisting in the operation of the event.
2. The date, hours of the day and place of the proposed casino party.
3. Names and residential address of two casino managers, all other names
used by such persons, date of birth, place of birth, driver's license number, social security
number, list of all charges resulting in conviction or plea of nolo contendere.
4. A complete list of prizes to be distributed with the cash value of each
prize.
5. The application shall contain a provision by which the applicant consents
to having all required notices, unless otherwise specified, sent by mail to applicant' s address on
the application by depositing the same in the United States mail postage prepaid.
6. A letter of responsibility containing a copy of the City ordinance regulating
casino parties shall be attached to the application form. A signature will be required on the form
by the applicant stating he/she has read and understood the ordinance and will be responsible
for properly advising all volunteers or assistants in the legal operation of the event.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.050 Review of Application
A. Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Sheriff may send copies of such
application to any office or department which the Sheriff deems necessary in order to carry out a
proper investigation of the applicant.
B. The Sheriff and every officer and department to which an application is issued
shall investigate the truth of the matters set forth in the application, the nature of the applicant,
the membership in the applicant of the persons to operate the games, and may examine the
premises to be used for the casino party. If the Sheriff is satisfied that the requirements of this
chapter are and will be met, the application shall be approved, and the Sheriff shall issue the
license.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.060 Denial and Revocation of Licenses
A. The Sheriff may deny any application for a casino party license, or revoke a
license if the Sheriff finds the applicant or licensee or any agent or representative thereof has:
5. 22 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statements of a
material fact in the application or in any record or report required to be filed pursuant to this
chapter.
2. The applicant has been convicted of a crime which constitutes a clear and
present danger of a serious substantive evil in relation to the business or activity proposed to be
licensed. A plea or verdict of guilty, a finding of guilty by a court in a trial without a jury, a plea of
nolo contendere, or a forfeiture of bail is deemed a conviction.
3. The applicant has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any
provisions of any other ordinance or law to or regulating said business or occupation.
4. The applicant violates an ordinance or other law relating to the operation
of the casino party or the premises on which the party occurs ( or permits such a violation to
occur) which jeopardizes the safety of the public.
5. Applicant is under 18 years of age.
B. If, after investigation, the Sheriff determines that a casino party license
application should be denied or a casino party license should be revoked, the Sheriff shall
prepare a notice of denial or revocation setting forth the reasons for such denial or revocation.
Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to the applicant' s last address provided in the
application or be personally delivered. Any person who has had an application for a casino
party license denied or revoked by the Sheriff may appeal the Sheriffs decision in the manner
provided in this chapter.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.070 Appeal
A. Within 15 calendar days after the date of any denial of a license application or
revocation of a license, an aggrieved party may appeal such action by filing with the City Clerk a
written appeal briefly setting forth the reasons why such denial or revocation is not proper.
B. Upon receipt of such written appeal, the City Clerk shall set the matter for
hearing before the City Council within 30 days. At least ten calendar days prior to the date of
the hearing on the appeal, the Clerk shall notify the appellant and Sheriff of the date and place
of the hearing. The City Clerk is authorized to issue subpoenas and to administer oaths. At
such hearing, the Sheriff and the appellant may present evidence relevant to the suspension,
revocation or denial or other decision of the Sheriff. The City Council shall receive evidence
and shall rule on the admissibility of evidence and on questions of law. The formal rules of
evidence applicable in a court of law shall not apply to such hearing.
C. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council may uphold the Sheriff's action
or may issue or reinstate a license. The City Council' s decision shall be final.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.080 Operational Requirements
All casino parties shall be operated and conducted in accordance with the standards of
this section in particular, and this chapter, in general.
A. Any police officer shall have free access to any casino party licensed under this
section. The licensee shall have the casino party license and a list of approved volunteers of
the non- profit charitable organization and persons who will operate the casino party available for
inspection at all times during the event at the site of the event.
B. All casino parties shall be held at a fixed location easily accessible for inspection
by the Sheriff. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no casino party may be carried on
where prohibited by zoning ordinance or within a structure which does not comply with
applicable building code regulations.
5. 22 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. No minors shall be allowed to participate in any casino party.
D. All casino parties shall be open to the public free of charge and no advanced
reservations shall be required for attendance.
E. All chips or scrip must be dispensed free of charge. There can be no correlation
between the amount of chips or scrip dispensed and the amount of money donated by a
prospective participant.
F. No currency, cash, or checks may be used or displayed at any gaming table or
device.
G. No chips or scrip may be redeemed for money, consideration, or anything of
value.
H. No licensee shall operate a casino party in violation of any state, county, or local
law or ordinance.
I. All advertisements relating to a casino party must indicate that no purchase or
donation is necessary to participate and the event is open to the general public with no direct or
indirect obligation.
J. All drawing tickets shall have the words " Free Drawing" imprinted on the ticket.
The letters " Free Drawing" must be the same size or larger than any other letters printed on the
ticket.
K. Tickets or invitations must be printed with the words " Free Casino Party." The
letters " Free Casino Party" must be the same size or larger than any other letters printed on the
ticket or invitation.
L. All cashiers, volunteers, supervisors or persons assigned to operate any gaming
tables, or persons who participate in the promotion of any games during the operation of the
casino party must wear on his or her outside clothing, in plain view, at chest height, an
identification tag displaying the person' s name and title.
M. The licensee or one of the casino managers listed in the application must be
present at all times during the operation of the casino party.
N. No person shall be allowed to participate in a casino party unless the person is
physically present at the time and place in which the game is being conducted.
O. If an auction, raffle or drawing for prizes of any kind is held in conjunction with a
casino party, chips or scrip used during the casino party shall not be exchanged for money or
prizes or raffle tickets or used in any other manner to determine who will receive the prizes or
other objects of value given or sold in the action, raffle or drawing. No single prize awarded
may exceed $ 2, 500 of fair market value. The total fair market value of prizes awarded at any
one casino party shall not exceed $ 5,000. All prizes advertised must be awarded on the day of
the event and participants must be present to win.
P. No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except the
organization authorized to conduct a casino party shall hold a financial interest in the conduct of
such event.
Q. All profits derived from a casino party shall be kept in a special fund or account
and shall not be commingled with any other funds or account. Such profits shall be used only
for charitable purposes.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
Section 5. 22.090 Violation - Penalties
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Ord. No. 2002- 18, Added, 09/ 10/ 02)
5. 22 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.24
Establishments Offering Live Entertainment
Sections:
5. 24.010 Purpose and Intent
5. 24.020 Definitions
5. 24.030 Permit Requirements; Mandatory Legal and Regulatory Compliance
5. 24.040 Exemptions from Permit Requirement
5. 24.050 Permit Types
5. 24.060 Applications for Permits Contents
5. 24.070 Investigation of Applications
5. 24.080 Actions on Applications; Conditions
5. 24.090 Duration of Approved Permits
5. 24. 100 Renewal of Permits
5. 24. 110 Operating Standards for Entertainment and Entertainment Establishments
5. 24. 120 Closure Based on Threat to Public Safety
5. 24. 130 Permit Revocation
5. 24. 140 Appeals
5. 24. 150 Previously Issued Licenses for Cabarets and Dance Halls
Section 5. 24.010 Purpose and Intent
A. The City Council of the City of Vista encourages the development of arts and
culture, and recognizes that many entertainment establishments contribute to that goal. While
these venues can enhance the community, entertainment establishments sometimes generate
excessive noise or disorderly conduct by patrons. This can be particularly true at closing times,
with the attendant adverse public safety impact on the surrounding business and residential
community.
B. Therefore, it is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the operations of
entertainment establishments for the public safety. It is not the City's intent to regulate or restrict
the type or content of entertainment provided in those establishments. All permittees and
responsible persons will be held responsible for controlling patron conduct in and around the
establishments, making adequate provisions for security and crowd control, protecting the City' s
youth, and taking actions to minimize or eliminate public disturbances and criminal activity which
may result from, or be associated with, the operation of the entertainment establishment.
C. The City Council finds that the imposition of appropriate conditions, using the
procedures established by this chapter, will allow entertainment establishments to effectively
operate while meeting the City's public safety needs.
Prior Code 3- 1; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.020 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter the following terms shall have the definitions presented
below.
ABC License" means the license issued by the California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
City Manager" means the City Manager for the City of Vista or the City Manager's
designee.
5. 24 ( l) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Entertainment" or " entertainment establishment" means any single event, a series
of events, or an ongoing activity or business, occurring alone or as part of another business, to
which the public is invited or allowed to watch, listen, or participate, or is conducted for the
purposes of holding the attention of, gaining the attention of, or diverting or amusing guests or
patrons, including:
A. Presentations by single or multiple performers, such as hypnotists, pantomimes,
comedians, musical song or dance acts, karaoke, plays, concerts, any type of contest; sporting
events, exhibitions, carnival, rodeo or circus acts, demonstrations of talent; shows, reviews, any
other such activity which may be attended by members of the public.
B. Dancing to live or recorded music.
C. The presentation of recorded music played on equipment which is operated by
an agent or contractor of the establishment, commonly known as " DY or "disc jockey."
Entertainment permit" means a permit obtained from the City Manager, or on appeal,
from the City Council, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for the purposes of operating an
entertainment establishment.
Permittee" means a person, persons, or business entity that has been issued an
entertainment permit as provided in this chapter.
Reasonable efforts" means the provision of an adequate number of licensed security
personnel to the extent required as a condition of an entertainment permit, the adoption of
operating policies that are consistent with the requirements of this Code and the permit and the
adherence to those policies, the documented training of employees in the carrying out of the
establishment operating policies, notifying the Sheriffs Department of apparent criminal activity,
and the taking of all additional measures, consistent with sound business judgment, necessary
to achieve compliance with this chapter and conditions imposed on the entertainment or
entertainment establishment by the applicable entertainment permit.
Responsible person" means any person who is physically at the place of
entertainment or entertainment establishment, whether or not an entertainment permit has been
issued, and is any of the following:
A. The person who owns the entertainment establishment.
B. The person in charge of the entertainment establishment.
C. The person using the entertainment establishment under a special arrangement.
D. An employee or agent of an owner or manager of the entertainment
establishment when the owner or manager is temporarily absent from the entertainment
establishment.
E. The entertainment establishment's manager or on- site supervisor.
Theater" means any commercial establishment where regular theatrical performances,
such as performances of literary compositions that tell a story, are given, usually on a stage,
and usually with ascending row seating or some arrangement of permanent seating.
Prior Code 3- 2; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.030 Permit Requirements; Mandatory Legal and Regulatory Compliance
A. Unless exempted by this chapter, it is unlawful for the owner of an entertainment
establishment or a responsible person, to provide, host, or allow any entertainment which is
open to the public without a valid and current entertainment permit.
B. It is unlawful for the owner of an entertainment establishment or a responsible
person to provide or permit any entertainment, or to operate an entertainment establishment,
without having the correct class of entertainment permit as set forth in Section 5. 24. 050.
C. It is unlawful for an entity or a responsible person, to operate an entertainment
establishment in a manner that violates:
5. 24 ( 2) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
1. The provisions of this chapter.
2. The conditions imposed in connection with an entertainment permit.
3. The conditions imposed in connection with a special use permit or any
other land use entitlement applicable to the premises on which an entertainment establishment
operates.
4. Any other provision of this Code or the Development Code which may
apply to the entertainment establishment or the premises on which the entertainment
establishment operates.
D. An entertainment permit shall cover only one location and shall not be
transferable to a new owner or to a new location.
Prior Code 3- 3; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.040 Exemptions from Permit Requirement
The following types of entertainment and entertainment establishments are exempt from
the entertainment permit required by this chapter. The following exemptions only apply to the
need to obtain an entertainment permit, and do not exempt any responsible person from the
obligation to satisfy all applicable laws that apply to that entertainment or entertainment
establishment.
A. Entertainment provided in connection with a special event permit or a park event
permit approved pursuant to Chapters 12. 12 and 12. 13 of this Code provided that such permit
specifically authorizes or allows, as applicable, the entertainment provided.
B. Entertainment occurring within a City-owned facility, including the Moonlight
Amphitheatre and the Avo Playhouse, where the entertainment is specifically authorized
pursuant to a contract between the City and the party managing, presenting or hosting the
entertainment.
C. Entertainment sponsored by any agency of the City of Vista, the County of San
Diego, the various Boards of Education, any other political subdivision of the State of California,
or a charter school provided that the entertainment offered by the charter school is part of an
educational and instructional program.
D. Entertainment limited to the use of a radio, music recording machine, juke box,
television, video games, video programs, or recorded music by an establishment, unless used
for dance or karaoke.
E. Entertainment provided for members and their guests at a private club having an
established membership when admission is not open to the public. For purposes of this Section,
private club means corporations or associations operated solely for objects of national, social,
fraternal, patriotic, political, or athletic nature, membership in which is by application and for
which regular dues are charged, and the advantages of which club belong to members, and the
operation of which is not primarily for monetary gain.
F. Entertainment provided at a private residence for invited guests where there is no
admission charge.
G. Entertainment conducted by or sponsored by any bona fide club, organization,
society or association which is exempt from taxation pursuant to Internal Revenue Code section
501( c)( 3), when all proceeds, if any arising from such entertainment are used exclusively for the
benevolent purposes of such club, society or association.
H. Theaters.
I. Motion picture theaters not providing live entertainment.
J. Dance lessons, theatrical and performing arts lessons.
5. 24 ( 3) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
K. Book readings, book signings, poetry recitations, and any other similar
entertainment consisting of the spoken word, including plays.
L. Fundraisers for a political cause.
Prior Code 3- 4; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.050 Permit Types
A. Unless exempted pursuant to Section 5. 24.040, a valid and current entertainment
permit, of the class indicated below, must be issued for each entertainment or entertainment
establishment.
1. When alcohol will not be served or consumed on the premises:
a. A " class 1" permit for entertainment using no sound amplification.
b. A " class 2" permit for entertainment using sound amplification on
one or more occasions which does not include dancing.
C. A " class 3" permit for entertainment using sound amplification on
one or more occasions which includes dancing.
2. When alcohol will be served or consumed on the premises:
a. A " class 1A" permit for entertainment using no sound amplification.
b. A " class 2A" permit for entertainment using sound amplification,
on one or more occasions which does not include dancing.
C. A " class 3A" permit for entertainment using sound amplification on
one or more occasions which includes dancing.
B. For purposes of this section, entertainment includes dancing when the
entertainment establishment:
1. Has a dance floor of at least 100 square feet which can be used for
dancing by those in attendance; or
2. Clears an area of at least 100 square feet which can be used for dancing
by those in attendance.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.060 Applications for Permits  Contents
A. Before any entertainment permit is issued, an application signed and verified by
the applicant, along with any required fee, shall be filed with the City Manager, on a form
approved by the City Manager.
B. The complete application shall be filed with the City Manager at least 45 days
prior to each of the following:
1. The proposed start of any entertainment or the opening of the
entertainment establishment.
2. The proposed effective date for a change in class or conditions
associated with an issued entertainment permit.
3. The sale of any interest in the entertainment establishment or the
business entity in control of the entertainment establishment which is equal to or greater than
ten percent.
C. The application shall include the following information:
1. For the applicant and each person having a financial interest in the
entertainment establishment of at least ten percent, that person' s name, home address,
business address, and other pertinent identifying information as determined by the City
Manager.
5. 24 ( 4) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The nature of the business or activity for which a permit is requested, and
the class of permit requested.
3. The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed,
if any.
4. The address and a detailed description of the premises for which the
permit is sought, including but not limited to the approximate size of the lot and the approximate
square footage of any structure in which the activity will occur, a description of the area where
any dancing, if any, is to be conducted, a description of any parking facilities on the premises
and in the nearby vicinity, and a general description of the neighborhood in which the premises
are located.
5. A description of the principal activities to be conducted on the premises.
6. Whether alcoholic beverages will be offered for sale or otherwise
provided, and, if so, the number of the applicable ABC license.
7. The names, residence addresses, business addresses, and other
pertinent identifying information for each responsible person currently employed or associated
with an operating entertainment establishment or who is anticipated to be employed by or
associated with an entertainment establishment for the coming permit year.
8. The maximum capacity of the room or rooms where the entertainment will
occur.
9. Whether the applicant or any other responsible person( s) have been
convicted of a misdemeanor or felony offense within the past ten years, the nature of such
offense(s) and the sentence( s) received therefor.
10. Whether the applicant has ever obtained or sought to obtain an
entertainment permit or similar permit in the past, and whether such permit was ever revoked or
denied.
11. Written consent for the proposed entertainment on the premises from the
owner of the property on which the entertainment is to be conducted.
12. A floor plan in sufficient detail to permit a review of the function,
operation, and legal compliance of the entertainment establishment presented in such manner
as may be required by the application form.
13. Such other information as the City Manager may deem necessary or
proper for processing and review of the application, including for entertainment using amplified
sound, a professional acoustical or sound study which may be required in connection with the
initial application, any reapplication, or any appeal thereof.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.070 Investigation of Applications
A. A copy of each entertainment application pursuant to Section 5. 24.060 and
renewal application pursuant to Section 5. 24. 100 shall be provided to the Sheriff's Department
who shall report on:
1. Whether the submitted application is accurate and truthful in all material
respects.
2. Whether the entertainment or entertainment establishment would, with
respect to law enforcement and related subjects, satisfy the requirements for issuance of a
permit presented in Section 5. 24.080.
3. Conditions which the City Manager can consider imposing on the
entertainment establishment, consistent with this chapter, if the application is approved.
B. The City Manager shall obtain comments and reports from City departments and
City officials, including the Fire Marshal and Building Official, regarding whether the
5. 24 ( 5) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
entertainment establishment would satisfy the requirements of this Code and, the standards for
approval set forth in Section 5. 24.080.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.080 Action on Applications  Conditions
A. The City Manager shall approve the issuance of the entertainment permit if he or
she finds all of the following:
1. The submitted application was complete, signed, verified and
accompanied by the required fee.
2. The application did not include any material misstatement of fact or
omission of fact.
3. Issuance of the permit and conduct of the entertainment at the proposed
location, as conditioned, will conform with federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and
any existing special use or similar permit(s).
4. Issuance of the permit and conduct of the entertainment at the proposed
location, as conditioned, will not pose an undue burden on the neighborhood because of its
proximity to residences, inadequate parking or other neighborhood circumstances and will not
interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the neighborhood by residents and
commercial interests.
5. Neither the applicant nor any responsible person or principal of the
applicant has, within the past ten years, been convicted of a felony or other crime of moral
turpitude that is substantially related to the qualifications, functions or duties of a proprietor or
manager charged with the lawful and responsible operation of an entertainment establishment
or the premises upon which such establishment is located.
6. Neither the applicant nor any responsible person or principal of the
applicant has a history of committing, permitting or failing to prevent significant violations of this
Code, the Development Code, or any license or permit, in connection with the operation of an
entertainment establishment or premises similar to that upon which the entertainment
establishment will be located.
B. The City Manager may impose conditions when issuing an entertainment permit.
1. Conditions may be imposed to assure that the entertainment or
entertainment establishment will satisfy the requirements of this chapter, this Code, the
Development Code and will operate without creating the adverse impacts that, pursuant to
paragraph (A), would have justified denial of the application.
2. All conditions shall be set forth in writing and shall be deemed to be
appended to the issued entertainment permit.
3. Should the applicant object to any conditions imposed on an approved
entertainment permit, the applicant may request that the City Manager reconsider the imposition
of one or more conditions. An objection to one or more conditions may be filed in writing
personally with the City Clerk following the date that the entertainment permit is approved, but
no more than once in any fiscal year with respect to the same condition. The request for
reconsideration shall specify the specific conditions to which objection is made, and shall
present all factual, legal and other arguments regarding why that condition or those conditions
should not be imposed. The City Manager will then review the objections and issue a written
response. The written response shall identify which protested conditions have been eliminated
or retained. For any retained condition, the written determination shall present the facts and
reasons for retaining the condition. The City Manager' s determination shall be final, and the
applicant shall, pending resolution, comply with all disputed conditions unless such compliance
is waived in writing by the City Manager upon request by the applicant. As an alternative to the
5. 24 ( 6) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
preceding procedures, the City Manager may elect to present a request for reconsideration to
the City Council when the contested condition, in the City Manager's discretion, involves larger
or unique matters of potential public concern. In that event, the request for reconsideration shall
be presented to the City Council using the procedures set forth in Section 5. 24. 140, and the City
Council' s action shall be final.
C. If the City Manager denies the application, the applicant shall be notified of the
reasons for the denial in writing within 45 days after receipt of a complete application. However,
failure to notify the applicant within the specified time period shall not constitute a basis for
granting the permit. An applicant denied an entertainment permit has a right to appeal the denial
in accordance with Section 5. 24. 130. If a timely appeal is not requested, the denial shall be
final.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14; Ord. No. 2014- 12, Amended, 06/ 24/ 14)
Section 5. 24.090 Duration of Approved Permits
A. Entertainment permits shall expire when either of the following occurs:
1. June 30 of each year; or
2. The business operated by the entertainment establishment moves to a
new location.
B. When an entertainment permit identified in paragraph ( A) is initially issued during
the period between April 1 and June 29, the duration of the permit may run through the second
June 30 following issuance in accordance with an administrative practice or policy approved by
the City Manager.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.100 Renewals of Permits
A. The following procedure shall be used for the review of applications for renewal
of all entertainment permits.
1. A renewal notice shall be sent to the permittee at least 30 days prior to a
scheduled expiration of the entertainment permit.
2. To apply for renewal, the permittee shall remit the required renewal fee
set by resolution of the City Council and shall update the information concerning the
entertainment establishment and its operation by providing the following:
a. Any information or disclosure which should have been included, in
a prior application or a prior application for renewal, but which was not included therein.
b. Information regarding any change in ownership of the
entertainment establishment which is ten percent or greater, including all information required
for the new owner in accordance with Section 5. 24.060( C).
C. With respect to the information provided pursuant to Section
5. 24.060, any change in the proposed operation, design, or layout of the entertainment
establishment or the nature of the entertainment to be provided.
d. Whether:
1. The permittee or any responsible person has been
convicted, since the submission of the last application, of a misdemeanor or felony offense, the
nature of that offense, and any sentence therefor; and
2. The names and identifying information of any new
responsible person not disclosed in a prior application.
5. 24 ( 7) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
e. Whether the permittee, since the submission of the last
application, has had an entertainment permit or similar permit revoked or not renewed, and the
basis for that decision.
f. Whether the applicant seeks a class of entertainment permit which
varies from the class of the current permit.
3. Any application for renewal shall be signed and verified by the applicant.
B. The application shall be eligible for approval if it satisfies the requirements of
Section 5. 24.080.
C. All conditions imposed on the immediately prior permit shall continue with respect
to any renewed permit, and the City Manager may impose additional conditions in accordance
with Section 5. 24. 080( B).
D. If the City Manager denies an application, the basis for the denial shall be
presented in accordance with Section 5.24. 080(C) and any appeal shall be processed in
accordance with Section 5. 24. 140.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 90- 22, Amended, 6/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 98- 1,
Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No. 2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.110 Operating Standards
Each entertainment and each entertainment establishment is required to satisfy the
following operating standards, and each responsible person shall engage in all reasonable
efforts to assure that any entertainment or entertainment establishment satisfies the following
operating standards:
A. The entertainment permit shall be displayed on the premises in a conspicuous
place so that law enforcement persons entering may readily see the entertainment permit and
any conditions imposed thereon. A copy of the floor plan approved with the entertainment permit
shall be made available at all times at the request of any law enforcement officer or fire marshal.
B. The entertainment establishment shall be closed and all patrons shall vacate the
premises between 2: 00 a.m. and 6:00 a. m., unless the entertainment permit is conditioned for
additional hours of closure.
C. Reasonable efforts shall be made to prevent the admission of any person whose
conduct is described in Penal Code Section 415 ( fighting, loud noise) or 647 ( disorderly
conduct) at the premises or on any parking lot or similar facility used by the establishment. The
responsible person shall make reasonable efforts to remove persons exhibiting such conduct
from the establishment, including calling the Sheriff's Department when circumstances warrant.
D. Reasonable passageway shall be provided through any part of a room used by
patrons and entertainers for their ingress and egress.
E. Except as provided below, an establishment providing amplified entertainment
shall assure that the amplified entertainment occurs exclusively within a fully enclosed building
with all windows and doors closed, except that a door may be briefly and temporarily opened as
may be necessary to accommodate ingress or egress. Notwithstanding the preceding
requirement, amplified entertainment may occur within a building that has open doors, windows,
or other passages within an industrial zone between the hours of noon and 10 p. m. if such
entertainment is expressly authorized in the conditions for the entertainment permit. For
purposes of this paragraph, the industrial zone shall include the M- 1 zone, I- P zone, Business
Park Specific Plan, or Specific Plan 14.
F. All laws applicable to noise abatement shall be observed, including those
contained in Chapter 8. 32 of this Code.
G. Reasonable efforts shall be undertaken to control the conduct of patrons so as to
prevent or minimize disorderly or unlawful conduct upon the entertainment establishment and
5. 24 ( 8) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
within 100 feet of the establishment. The 100- foot distance shall be measured in a straight line
from the property line of the permitted entertainment establishment.
H. An orderly dispersal of individuals from the vicinity of the entertainment
establishment shall occur at closing time, and those dispersed shall not be permitted to
congregate in the vicinity in a disorderly fashion.
I. Persons shall not bring an alcoholic beverage onto the premises, or otherwise
consume an alcoholic beverage on the premises, unless the permittee has been issued an ABC
license and an entertainment permit pursuant to Section 5. 24.050(A)( 2).
J. The maximum number of persons in the entertainment establishment, other than
employees, shall not, at any time, exceed the maximum occupant load as established by the
Fire Marshal or the City Building Official.
K. The entertainment establishment, and all of its operations, must comply with all
requirements relating to responsible beverage sales and service contained in Chapter 5. 10 of
this Code if the entertainment establishment allows for the service of consumption of alcohol on
the premises.
L. In addition to satisfying all operating requirements found in this Section, each
entertainment establishment shall satisfy all other or additional requirements contained in this
Code, contained in the Development Code, and imposed pursuant to any entertainment permit
issued for the entertainment establishment.
M. During its business hours, the entertainment establishment shall allow entry to
any peace officer or code enforcement officer of the City, County or the State, or any officer or
official of the United States government, charged with the duty of enforcing police laws during
the business hours of the entertainment establishment.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.120 Closure Based on Threat to Public Safety
A. The Sheriff's Department may require a permittee or responsible person to close
down the operations of an entertainment or an entertainment establishment and disperse all
patrons for the remainder of its daily operation whenever conduct by disorderly patrons reaches
a magnitude that presents an immediate threat to the public safety or well- being of the patrons
and general public in the vicinity.
B. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any directive issued by the
Sheriff's Department under authority of Section 5. 24. 100( A).
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 75- 58, Amended 12/ 22/75; Ord. No. 98- 1,
Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No. 2010- 8, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10; Ord. No. 2014- 7, Amended in its
Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.130 Permit Revocation
A. Any entertainment permit issued pursuant to this chapter is subject to revocation
prior to the date on which it would otherwise expire if it is found that:
1. A material violation of this chapter has occurred;
2. A material violation of the terms and conditions of the entertainment
permit has occurred; or
3. The continued operation of the entertainment establishment constitutes a
nuisance or will endanger the public, health, safety, or welfare of the City or its inhabitants.
Notice of a pending revocation shall be provided to the permittee in writing delivered to the
address provided on the application and shall state the facts and grounds upon which the
pending revocation is based with a date for the pending revocation to take effect which shall be
no sooner than 15 days following the date of such notice. The notice of the pending revocation
5. 24 ( 9) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
shall take effect on the date indicated therein unless the applicant files a written notice of appeal
with the City Clerk no later than ten days following the posting or delivery of the revocation
notice shall generally set forth the facts, reasons and any legal arguments why the pending
revocation should not occur. The City Manager will consider the evidence and arguments
presented, and issue a written decision whether to rescind the revocation, whether to allow the
revocation to take effect, identifying an effective date which shall be no sooner than 15 days
following the date of the City Manager's determination, or determine whether to rescind the
revocation but to impose additional conditions on the permit.
B. Nothing in this Section shall limit the City' s authority to use any other legal means
to cite, curtail, limit, enjoin, or prosecute, as applicable, any nuisance condition associated with
the operation of an entertainment establishment, a violation of any provision of this Code or law,
or the actions of any responsible person in connection therewith.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
Section 5. 24.140 Appeals
A. In the event the City Manager denies or revokes an entertainment permit, the
applicant may appeal to the City Council by filing with the City Clerk a written notice of appeal
within ten days from the date of such denial or revocation. The notice of appeal shall briefly
present the facts, reasons, and legal arguments why the permit should not be revoked or
denied. If such appeal is filed, the City Council shall set an informal hearing to review the
appeal. The hearing shall be set within a reasonable time which shall be: ( 1) no sooner than 15
days from the date of the notice of appeal; and ( 2) no longer than 30 days from the date of the
notice of appeal unless a regular meeting of the City Council has been cancelled, in which case
the hearing shall occur no later than 60 days following the date of the notice of appeal. If a
timely appeal is not filed, the decision of the City Manager shall become final.
B. The appeal before the City Council shall constitute a de novo proceeding. The
applicant may submit to the City Clerk any written materials, arguments, evidence, and
declarations. To allow for proper review and consideration, all submissions by the applicant or
permittee must be received by the City Clerk no later than ten days prior to the scheduled
hearing. Following the appeal, the City Council shall take action on the appeal. If the appeal is
denied, the facts and reasons for the denial shall be set forth in writing and the date for a
revocation, if applicable, shall be no sooner than ten days following the date of such written
notice.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 98- 1, Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No.
2014- 7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14; Ord. No. 2014- 12, Amended, 06/ 24/ 14)
Section 5. 24.150 Previously Issued Licenses for Cabarets and Dance Halls
A. Licenses issued to cabarets and dance halls pursuant to the former Chapter 5. 24
shall remain valid through June 30, 2014, unless a license expires earlier in accordance with
Section 5. 24. 120 of that chapter. Until these licenses expire, the cabaret and dance halls shall
continue to operate in accordance with the terms of its license and in accordance with all terms
of the former Chapter 5. 24.
B. If a person or business operating an entertainment establishment pursuant to a
valid and current cabaret or dance hall permit wishes to offer entertainment after June 30, 2014,
that person or business must apply for an entertainment permit within the time limits set by
Section 5. 24.060( B), and must obtain a valid entertainment permit in order to provide
entertainment after June 30, 2014.
Prior Code 3- 5; Ord. 66- 23, Enacted 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 98- 1,
Repealed and Replaced, 02/ 10/ 98; Ord. No. 2014-7, Amended in its Entirety, 03/ 25/ 14)
5. 24 ( 10) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.28
Cable Television Franchise
Sections:
5. 28.010 Definitions
5. 28.020 Nature and Extent of Grant
5. 28.030 Duration of Grant
5. 28.040 Interpretation
5. 28.050 Limitations Upon Grant
5. 28.060 Abandonment of Service
5. 28.070 FCC Rules Applicable
5. 28.080 Location of Franchise Property
5. 28.090 Removal or Abandonment of Franchise Property
5. 28. 100 Changes Required by Public Improvements
5. 28. 110 Failure to Perform Street Work
5. 28. 120 Annual Payments to the City
5. 28. 130 Faithful Performance Bond
5. 28. 140 Indemnification to City
5. 28. 150 Inspection of Property and Records
5. 28. 160 Miscellaneous Provisions
5. 28. 170 Unlawful Acts
5. 28. 180 Equal Opportunity Employment and Affirmative Action Plan
5. 28. 190 Rates and Charges
5. 28.200 Subscriber Reimbursements
5. 28.210 Cable Television Review Committee
5. 28.220 Publication Expense
Section 5.28.010 Definitions
Unless it is apparent from the context that it has a different meaning, each of the
following terms, phrases, words and their derivations has the meaning given in this section
whenever it is used in this franchise:
City" means the City of Vista, California, a municipal corporation duly organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California.
Council" means the Council of the City of Vista.
Franchise Property" means all property owned, installed or used under authority of
this franchise by the grantee.
Grantee" means the person or corporation to whom or which this franchise is granted
by the Council, and the lawful successor or assignee thereof, and who or which has filed with
the City an acceptance and bond referred to in Sections 5. 28. 030A and 5. 28. 130 of this chapter.
Street" means the surface of, and the space above and below any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, utility easements, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive, now or hereafter
existing as such within the city.
Community Antenna Television System," hereinafter referred to as " CATV" means
coaxial cable, wave guides or other conductors and equipment for providing television, radio or
other service by cable or through its facilities as contemplated in this chapter. CATV applies
only to the transmission of general broadcast programs, noncommercial or nonpaid programs of
a public service character. CATV does not include the transmission of any other pay television,
5. 28 ( l) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
and such transmission is specifically excluded from the franchise ordinance codified in this
chapter.
Subscribers" means any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service
of grantee as provided in this chapter.
Service Area" means the area within which grantee is permitted to serve subscribers
under the provisions of this franchise.
Operating Licensee" means any person or entity conducting all or part of a CATV
under license of, or transfer from, the grantee pursuant to Section 5. 28. 050C.
Total Gross Receipts" means any and all compensation under consideration received
directly by the grantee and its operating licensees from the operation of its CATV service within
the corporate limits of the city as such corporate limits now exist or may be hereafter
established.
Prior Code 613- 1; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.020 Nature and Extent of Grant
The franchise granted by the City authorizes Pala Mesa Cablevision, Inc., grantee, to
engage in the business of operating and providing a CATV system within those portions of the
city that were in the unincorporated area of the County of San Diego on July 5, 1966, subject to
the following provisions herein contained:
A. To install, construct, replace, repair, reconstruct, maintain and retain:
1. A television antenna, supporting structure and appurtenances in such
place as may be authorized by the City Engineer; and
2. Wires, cable, coaxial cable, conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to
the CATV system, above, in and under streets within the city, and, in addition, so to use,
operate and provide similar properties rented or leased from other persons, firms or
corporations for such purpose.
B. To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the collection,
transmission, amplification and distribution of electrical or radiant energy for television and radio
reception. C. To provide, use and operate similar properties rented or leased from
other persons, firms or corporations for such purpose.
D. To engage in the business of the distribution and sale of such energy to
subscribers within the city.
E. The grantee shall not engage in the business of selling television or other
receivers which make use of signals transmitted by its system, nor shall grantee engage in the
repair of such receivers or the sale of parts for same.
Prior Code 613- 2; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.030 Duration of Grant
A. This franchise shall not become effective until the grantee has filed with the City
Clerk a written instrument, addressed to the Council, accepting this franchise and agreeing to
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
B. The term of this franchise is 20 years commencing on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, provided, that upon written notice given by the City or grantee
to the other not less than 90 days prior to the third anniversary of said effective date, the terms
and conditions of this franchise may be subject to renegotiation for the succeeding ten- year
term. Renegotiations shall be directed toward effecting alterations in the terms and conditions
of the franchise in order to reflect those technical and economic changes which have occurred
during the interim period. In no event shall payments under the franchise either be reduced
5. 28 ( 2) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
below two percent of the total gross annual receipts of the grantee or be increased in excess of
four percent of the total gross annual receipts of the grantee.
C. This franchise may be terminated by the City Council in the event the Council
has found, after notice and hearing, that:
1. The grantee fails to comply with any provision of this chapter.
2. Any provision of this chapter becomes invalid or unenforceable and the
Council expressly finds that such provision constituted a consideration material to the grant of
this franchise.
D. Any franchise granted under this chapter is renewable at the application of the
grantee, its lawful successors, or assignee for such period of time as the Council and the
grantee may agree upon by negotiation.
E. The grantee shall not commence construction or operation under this franchise
until the happening of the following events:
1. The written acceptance of this chapter by the grantee accepting all of the
terms and conditions of this franchise and agreeing to be bound thereby, delivered to the City
Clerk in a form approved by the City Attorney.
2. The filing of surety bond or bonds with the City Clerk, as required by
Section 5. 28. 130 of this chapter, in the amount specified therein and in a form satisfactory to the
City Attorney.
3. The grantee filing with the City a contract between it and the Pacific
Telephone and Telegraph Company, and/ or the San Diego Gas and Electric Company, or such
other or additional utility companies as may be necessary, wherein grantee is granted the right
to use the facilities of such utility or utilities in its operations, said contract to be approved as to
form by the City Attorney.
F. Failure of grantee to comply with the conditions precedent as stated in
Subsection E of this section within 90 days after such adoption shall, at the option of the City,
cause this franchise to be forfeited.
Prior Code 6B- 3; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.040 Interpretation
Unless otherwise specifically prescribed in this chapter, the following provisions shall
govern the interpretation and construction of this franchise:
A. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular
number include the plural number.
B. Time is of the essence of this franchise. The grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to promptly comply with any provision of this chapter by any failure of the City to
enforce prompt compliance with the same or any other provision.
C. Any right or power conferred, or duty imposed upon any officer, employee,
department or board of the City is subject to transfer by operation of law to any other officer,
employee, department or board of the City.
D. The grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the City for any loss,
cost, expense or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of this franchise or the
enforcement thereof.
E. This franchise does not relieve the grantee of any requirement of any ordinance,
rule, regulation or specification of the City, including, but not limited to, any requirement relating
to street work, street excavation permits, or the use, removal or relocation of property in streets.
Prior Code 6B-4; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
5. 28 ( 3) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 28.050 Limitations Upon Grant
A. No privilege or exemption is granted or conferred by this franchise except those
specifically prescribed in this section.
B. The said franchise and privilege are subordinate to any existing franchise or
lawful occupancy of any public highway, street, road or other public property for the purpose of
erecting, operating and maintaining poles, lines, conduits, cables, pipelines and other necessary
fixtures used in connection with the purpose of said existing franchise or franchises or any
extension thereof.
C. This franchise is a privilege to be held in personal trust by the original grantee. It
cannot in any event be transferred in part, and it is not to be sold, transferred, leased, assigned
or disposed of as a whole, either by forced sale, merger, consolidation or otherwise, without
prior consent of the City expressed by resolution, and then only under such conditions as may
be therein prescribed, provided, however, that no such consent is required for any transfer in
trust, mortgage, or other hypothecation, as a whole, to secure an indebtedness.
D. There is provided and reserved to the City every right and power which is
required by this franchise to be reserved or provided by any provision of law or of any ordinance
of the City, and the grantee by its acceptance of this franchise agrees to be bound thereby and
to comply with any action or requirement of the City in its exercise of any such right or power.
E. Neither the granting of this franchise nor any provision of this chapter constitutes
a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power of the City.
Prior Code 613- 5; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.060 Abandonment of Service
A. After the grantee has established service pursuant to this franchise in the
franchise area, such service shall not be suspended or abandoned unless such suspension or
abandonment is authorized by the City Council.
B. Whenever the grantee shall file with the City Council a written application alleging
that public interest, convenience and necessity no longer require that the grantee furnish service
as authorized or required by, or pursuant to this franchise, in any service area, the City Council
shall, at a public hearing, take evidence upon that question and shall make a finding with
respect thereto. Notice of such hearing shall be given by the grantee to each subscriber in such
area at least 15 days prior thereto. If the City Council finds that public interest, convenience and
necessity no longer require that the grantee furnish such service, then the City Council shall,
after the public hearing as provided in this chapter, authorize suspension or abandonment of
such service upon such reasonable terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the City
Council.
Prior Code 613- 6; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.070 FCC Rules Applicable
A. This franchise is governed by and subject to all applicable rules, regulations and
policies of the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC), specifically including Part 76, and
by the Laws of the State of California. Should there be any modifications of the provisions of
Part 76 of the rules and regulations of the FCC, specifically including Section 76. 31, that are
inconsistent with this franchise, the City and grantee agree that this franchise shall be
appropriately amended within one year after the effective date of the FCC' s adoption of the
modification or upon renewal of this franchise, whichever occurs first.
B. The said CATV system shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
accepted standards of the industry to the effect that the subscriber shall receive the best signal
5. 28 ( 4) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
to his TV set. The City may establish, in accordance with the practice of the television industry,
minimum acceptable standards of signal quality. The provisions of this subsection are a
material provision hereof," as these words are used in Section 5. 28.030C2 of this chapter.
Prior Code 613- 7; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.080 Location of Franchise Property
Franchise property shall be constructed or installed only at such locations and in such
manner as shall be approved by the City Engineer, acting in the exercise of reasonable
discretion.
Prior Code 613- 8; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.090 Removal or Abandonment of Franchise Property
A. In the event that the use of any franchise property is discontinued for any reason
for a continuous period of 12 months or that franchise property has been installed in any street
without complying with the requirements of this franchise, or the franchise has been terminated,
cancelled or has expired, the grantee shall promptly remove from the street all such property
other than any which the City Engineer may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of
any such removal, the grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such
property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the City Engineer.
B. Franchise property to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such manner
as the City Engineer shall prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of any franchise property
in place, the grantee shall submit to the City Council an instrument, satisfactory to the City
Attorney, transferring to the City the ownership of such property.
Prior Code 613- 9; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 100 Changes Required by Public Improvements
The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in
the same street, alley or public place, or remove from any street, alley or public place, any
franchise property when required by the City Engineer by reason of traffic conditions, public
safety, street vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines and tracks or any
other type of structures or improvements by governmental agencies when acting in a
governmental or proprietary capacity, or any other structures or public improvements, provided,
however, that grantee shall in all such cases have the privileges and be subject to the
obligations to abandon franchise property in place, as provided in Section 5. 28. 060.
Prior Code 613- 10; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 110 Failure to Perform Street Work
Upon failure of the grantee to commence, pursue or complete any work required by law
or by the provisions of this franchise to be done in any street, within the time prescribed and to
the satisfaction of the City Engineer, the City Engineer may, at his option, cause such work to
be done and the grantee shall pay to the City the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported
by the City Engineer to the grantee within 30 days after receipt of such itemized report.
Prior Code 613- 11; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
5. 28 ( 5) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 28. 120 Annual Payments to the City
A. By its acceptance of this franchise, the grantee agrees to pay to the City annually
in lawful money of the United States three percent of the total gross receipts collected or
received, or in any manner gained or derived by the grantee in each calendar year, or portion
thereof, during the term of this franchise, from the properties, operations and business referred
to in Section 5. 28.020 of this chapter.
B. Checks for all such payments shall be made payable to the City Treasurer, and
shall be submitted to the City Treasurer on or before March 1 of each year for the previous
calendar year or portion thereof.
C. Each payment shall be accompanied by a statement, in duplicate, verified by the
grantee or by a general officer or other duly authorized representative of the grantee, showing in
such form and detail as the City Council may require from time to time the facts material to a
determination of the amount due.
D. The payment made to the City by the grantee pursuant to this section for any
calendar year shall be in- lieu of any license, fee or business tax prescribed by the City for the
same period, but only to the extent of such payment.
Prior Code 6B- 12; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 130 Faithful Performance Bond
A. The grantee shall within the period specified in Section 5. 28. 030E file with the
City Clerk and, at all times thereafter, maintain in full force and effect an acceptable corporate
surety bond, in duplicate, in the amount of $ 1, 000, effective for the entire term of this franchise,
and conditioned that in the event the grantee fails to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of this franchise then there shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the
principal and surety of such bond any damage suffered by the City as a result thereof, including
the full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of
property as prescribed by Section 5. 28. 090, 5. 28. 120 or 5. 28. 140 of this chapter which may be
in default, up to the full amount of the bond, said condition to be a continuing obligation for the
duration of this franchise and thereafter until the grantee has liquidated all of its obligations with
the City that may have arisen from the acceptance of this franchise by the grantee or from its
exercise of any privilege granted in this chapter.
B. Neither the provisions of this section, any bond accepted by the City pursuant
thereto, nor any damages recovered by the City thereunder shall be construed to excuse faithful
performance by the grantee or to limit the liability of the grantee under this franchise or for
damages, either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
Prior Code 6B- 13; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 140 Indemnification to City
The grantee shall indemnify the City, its officers and its employees, against all claims,
demands, actions, suits and proceedings by others and against all liability to others, and against
any loss, cost and expense resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising out
of the grant exercise or enjoyment of this franchise, irrespective of the amount of the bond
designated in Section 5. 28. 130 of this chapter.
Prior Code 6B- 14; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 150 Inspection of Property and Records
A. At all reasonable times the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the City Engineer and/ or the City Administrator to examine all franchise
5. 28 ( 6) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
property, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within or without the
city, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and other records kept or maintained by
the grantee or under its control which treat of the operations, affairs, transactions or property of
the grantee with respect thereto. If any of such maps or records are not kept in the City, or
upon reasonable request made available in the City, and if the City Engineer and/ or the City
Administrator determines that an examination thereof is necessary or appropriate to the
performance of any of his duties, then all travel and maintenance expense necessarily incurred
in making such examination shall be paid by the grantee.
B. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the City Engineer and/ or the City
Administrator, at the times and in the form prescribed by the City Engineer and/ or the City
Administrator, such reports with respect to its operations, affairs, transactions or property as
may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the duties of the City
Engineer and/ or the City Administrator in connection with this franchise. Such reports may
include, but are not limited to, a complete set of as- built records and plans of all facilities
installed within the franchise service area.
Prior Code 6B- 15; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 160 Miscellaneous Provisions
A. All matters provided in this chapter to be filed with the City shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
B. The rate schedule for any service agreement or increase thereto to subscribers
must have written approval of the City Council.
C. The grantee shall maintain an office within the city limits or within the telephone
toll free service area of subscribers, so that CATV maintenance service shall be promptly
available to subscribers.
D. No person, firm or corporation in the existing service area of grantee shall be
arbitrarily refused service, provided, however, that grantee shall not be required to provide
service to any subscriber who does not pay the applicable connection fee or the applicable
monthly service charge.
E. A statement or schedule in a form approved by the City Attorney, of proposed
rates and charges to subscribers for installation and services, including related maps, will be
submitted to the City Council for approval within 120 days after the effective date referred to in
Section 5. 28. 030A.
Prior Code 613- 16; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 170 Unlawful Acts
A. It is unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connection, whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of grantee' s cable
television system for the purpose of enabling himself or others to receive any television signals,
radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or intelligence transmitted
over grantee' s cable system without payment to grantee or its lessee.
B. It is unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner, to willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cable, wires or other equipment used for the distribution of television
signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or intelligence
transmitted over grantee' s cable system.
C. It is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $ 500, or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six months, or both, for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 613- 17; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
5. 28 ( 7) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 28. 180 Equal Opportunity Employment and Affirmative Action Plan
A. In the carrying out of the construction, maintenance and operation of the cable
television system, the grantee shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, creed, color, sex or national origin.
B. The grantee shall take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed
and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color,
sex or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: employment,
upgrading, demotion or transfer recruitment, recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates
of pay or other forms of compensation and selection for training, including apprenticeship.
C. The grantee shall file with the FCC and the City copies of grantee's affirmative
action program as well as reports concerning complaints of discrimination and annual
employment reports as may be required by the FCC, unless the grantee fails to meet minimum
full- time employee criteria of the FCC.
Prior Code 613- 18; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28. 190 Rates and Charges
A. Installation charge (see note):
Residential - First or primary outlet 25.00
Residential - Additional outlet, each 15. 00
no charge if activated at same time as primary outlet)
Move outlet ( relocation - same residence) 25. 00
Disconnects No charge
Service call/ repair No charge
B. Monthly service charges:
Single dwelling unit
First or primary outlet ( including converter) 9. 95
Additional outlets ( including converter), each 3. 75
C. Service to public and charitable institutions is at no charge. One service drop will
be provided for each institution passed by cable plant, providing drop length does not exceed
150 feet in length. ( Time and material will be charged for footage in excess of 150 fifty feet.)
Trenching shall be provided by the institutions in underground utility areas.
D. Note: Installation charges may be reduced or eliminated for promotional
purposes.
Prior Code 613- 20; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.200 Subscriber Reimbursements
A. In the event of substantial system failure or individual subscriber complaint where
the signal quality fails to meet the technical standards established by the FCC ( except when
caused by circumstances outside of the grantee' s control, such as fire, earthquake, riot, power
failure and other similar circumstances), the grantee shall credit to the requesting affected
subscribers as follows:
1. For a single such interruption that has a continuous duration in excess of
24 hours from notification to the company, subscribers will receive credit equivalent to five
percent of the monthly service charge for the first 24 hours and five percent for each additional
24 hours or fraction thereof.
2. For multiple such interruptions where the cumulative total duration in any
one month is in excess of 24 hours and each individual outage is less than 24 hours,
5. 28 ( 8) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
subscribers will receive credit equivalent to ten percent of the total monthly service charge for
the first 24 hours and ten percent for each additional 24 hours or fraction thereof.
B. Subscriber complaints to the City shall be processed by the City Manager. The
City Manager, upon receiving a complaint, will verify that the complainant has reported the
problem to grantee. If not, the complainant will be told to report to the grantee. The City
Manager will also report the complaint to the grantee.
C. Any subscriber complaint regarding system failure or signal quality shall be
investigated by grantee. Grantee shall respond in writing to the subscriber and the City,
explaining the nature of the failure and the steps taken to correct it. If the subscriber is entitled
to a reimbursement pursuant to Subsection A of this section, the grantee' s response shall so
state.
D. In the event that a subscriber disagrees with grantee' s resolution to a complaint,
the subscriber may appeal to the cable television review committee. The appeal must be filed in
the City Manager' s office within seven days of receipt by the subscriber of grantee' s written
response. The decision of the committee shall be final.
E. A copy of this section shall be furnished to each complaining subscriber at the
time of grantee' s written response to the complaint.
Prior Code 613- 21; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.210 Cable Television Review Committee
There is established a cable television review committee. It consists of the City
Manager, one other City staff member and three citizens. The three citizen members shall be
appointed by the City Council for one-year terms, commencing July 1. The committee shall
establish rules and regulations for meeting and hearing appeals.
Prior Code 613- 22; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
Section 5. 28.220 Publication Expense
Grantee shall pay to City a sum of money sufficient to reimburse the City for all
publication expenses incurred by it in connection with the granting of this franchise; such
payment shall be made within 30 days after City has furnished grantee with a written statement
of such expenses.
Prior Code 613- 23; Ord. No. 80- 20, Amended 1/ 26/ 81)
5. 28 ( 9) Vista 2/ 12/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.30
Regulation of State Video Franchise Holders
Sections:
5. 30.010 Purpose and Authority
5. 30.020 Definitions
5. 30.030 State Video Franchise Applications
5. 30.040 State Video Franchise Fee
5. 30.050 State Video PEG Fee
5. 30.060 Audit Authority
5. 30.070 Customer Service Penalties; Appeals
Section 5. 30.010 Purpose and Authority
A. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate video service providers holding state
video franchises and operating within the city. The California Public Utilities Commission has the
sole authority to grant state video franchises pursuant to the Digital Infrastructure and Video
Competition Act of 2006 (" DIVCA"). Pursuant to DIVCA, the City of Vista shall receive a
franchise fee and shall receive a fee for public, educational and government ( PEG) purposes
from all state video franchise holders operating within the city.
B. City is entitled under DIVCA to establish and enforce penalties, consistent with
state law, against all state video franchise holders operating within the city for violations of
customer service and protection standards established by the state.
C. All current cable franchises in place shall remain in full force and effect until such
time as the cable franchise terminates or expires.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
Section 5. 30.020 Definitions
Gross revenue" for the purpose of this chapter shall have the same definition as set
forth in California Public Utilities Code  5860.
Material breach" for the purposes of this chapter shall have the same definition as set
forth in California Public Utilities Code  5860.
PEG" shall mean public, educational and governmental access.
PUC" shall mean the California Public Utilities Commission.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
Section 5. 30.030 State Video Franchise Applications
A. Applicants for state video franchises within the boundaries of the city must
concurrently provide to the City Clerk a complete copy of the application or amendment(s) to an
application filed with the California Public Utilities Commission.
B. Within 30 days of receipt of the application or amendments, the City Manager
shall provide any appropriate comments to the PUC regarding an application or an amendment
to an application for a state video franchise.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
5. 30 ( l) Vista 5/ 26/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 30.040 State Video Franchise Fee
For any state video franchise holder operating within the boundaries of the city, there
shall be a fee paid to the City equal to five percent of the gross revenue of that state video
franchise holder.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
Section 5. 30.050 State Video PEG Fee
For any state video franchise holder operating within the boundaries of the city, there
shall be an additional fee paid to the City equal to one percent of the gross revenue of that state
video franchise holder, which fee shall be used by the City for PEG channel facility purposes
consistent with state and federal law.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
Section 5. 30.060 Audit Authority
Not more than once annually, the City Manager or his designee may examine and
perform an audit of the business records of a holder of a state video franchise to ensure
compliance with Section 5. 30.040.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
Section 5. 30.070 Customer Service Penalties; Appeals
A. The holder of a state video franchise shall comply with all applicable state and
federal customer service and protection standards pertaining to the provision of video service.
B. The City Manager shall monitor the compliance of state video franchise holders
with respect to state and federal customer service and protection standards. The City Manager
shall provide the state video franchise holder written notice of any material breaches of
applicable customer service standards. Such notice will provide the state video franchise holder
30 days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach. Material
breaches not remedied within the 30-day time period shall be subject to the following penalties
to be imposed by the City:
1. A penalty of $ 500 shall be imposed for each day that each material
breach remains in effect, not to exceed $ 1, 500 for each material breach.
2. If a material breach of the same nature occurs within 12 months after a
notice and fine has been assessed, a penalty of$ 1, 000 shall be imposed for each day that each
material breach remains in effect, not to exceed $ 3, 000 for each material breach.
3. If a third or further material breach of the same nature within 12 months
after a notice and fine has been assessed, a fine of $ 2, 500 shall be imposed for each day the
violation remains in effect, not to exceed $ 7, 500 for each violation.
C. A state video franchise holder may appeal a penalty assessed by the City
Manager to the City Council within 60 days of the initial assessment. The City Council shall
hear all evidence and relevant testimony and may uphold, modify or vacate the penalty. The
City Council' s decision on the imposition of a penalty shall be final.
Ord. No. 2011- 9, Enacted 11/ 8/ 11; Ord. No. 2017- 5, Reenacted 4/ 25/ 17)
5. 30 ( 2) Vista 5/ 26/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.32
Cable Communications
Sections:
5. 32.010 Short Title
5. 32.020 Definitions
5. 32.030 Franchise Grant - Authority
5. 32.040 Franchise Grant - Incorporation by Reference
5. 32.050 Franchise Grant - Nature and Extent
5. 32.060 Franchise Grant - Duration
5. 32.070 Construction of Franchise - Interpretation
5. 32.080 Construction of Franchise - Limitations upon Grant
5. 32.090 Construction of Franchise - Rights Reserved to City
5. 32. 100 Franchising Procedures - Initial Application
5. 32. 110 Franchising Procedures - Replacement Franchise
5. 32. 120 Franchising Procedures - Franchise Acceptance
5. 32. 130 Franchising Procedures - Transfer or Assignment
5. 32. 140 System Design, Construction and Technical Performance Standards
5. 32. 150 System Design, Construction and Technical Performance Standards -
Compatibility
5. 32. 160 System Design, Construction and Technical Performance Standards -
Preventative Maintenance
5. 32. 170 System Design, Construction and Technical Performance Standards 
Proof of Performance
5. 32. 180 System Design, Construction and Technical Performance Standards -
Corrective Maintenance
5. 32. 190 Construction - Permits
5. 32.200 Construction - Generally
5. 32.210 Construction - Underground Facilities
5. 32.220 Construction - System Extension
5. 32.230 Construction - Conditions on Street Occupancy
5. 32.240 Construction - Street Work
5. 32.250 Changes Required by Public Improvement
5. 32.260 Removal or Abandonment of Grantee Property
5. 32.270 System Maintenance
5. 32.280 Safety Requirements
5. 32.290 Operation and Service - Service Area
5. 32.300 Operation and Service - Establishment of Service
5. 32.310 Operation and Service - Basic System Capability
5. 32.320 Operation and Service - Local Origination and/ or Access
5. 32.330 Operation and Service - Municipal Services
5. 32.340 Operation and Service - Interconnection
5. 32.350 Operation and Service - Emergency Service
5. 32.360 Operation and Service - Subscriber Service
5. 32.370 Operation and Service Subscribers' Privacy
5. 32.380 Rates and Charges - Federal and State Preemption
5. 32.390 Rates and Charges - Procedure for Change of Rates and Charges
5. 32.400 Rates and Charges - Standards
5. 32.410 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Franchise Fee
5. 32 (l) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
5. 32.420 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Public Liability and Property
Damage Insurance
5. 32.430 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Worker' s Compensation
5. 32.440 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Faithful Performance Bond
5. 32.450 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Security Fund
5. 32.460 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Indemnification to City
5. 32.470 Inspection of Property and Records - Examination of Property
5. 32.480 Inspection of Property and Records - Reports, Records and Plans
5. 32.490 Adoption of Rules and Regulations
5. 32.500 Amendment of this Chapter and the Franchise
5. 32.510 Notices
5. 32.520 Violations
5. 32.530 Fines and Penalties
Section 5. 32.010 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the "Vista Cable Communications Ordinance."
Prior Code 6C- 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, abbreviations, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
Applicant" means any person or corporation submitting an application for a cable
communications franchise.
Basic Service" means that service regularly provided to all subscribers that includes,
but is not necessarily limited to, the retransmissions of local broadcast television signals, and
public, educational and governmental access programming as may be required by the terms
and conditions of a franchise issued under this chapter.
Cable Communications System" or " CATV System" means a facility, consisting of a
set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes, but is not limited to, video
programming which is provided to subscribers and other appropriate users within the city.
Channel" means a six megahertz ( MHz) frequency band, which is capable of carrying
either one standard audio/ visual television signal, or a number of audio, digital or other nonvideo
signals.
City" means the City of Vista, a municipal corporation of the State of California, in its
present incorporated form or in any later reorganized, consolidated, enlarged or reincorporated
form.
Community Access Channel" or " Access Channel" means any channel or portion of
a channel utilized for programming on a nonprofit basis.
Council" means the present governing body of the City or any future board constituting
the legislative body of the City.
Federal Communications Commission" or " FCC" means the present federal agency
of that name as constituted by the Communications Act of 1934, or any successor agency
created by the United States Congress.
Franchise" or " Franchise Agreement" means any authorization granted under the
provisions of this chapter in terms of a franchise, privilege, permit, license, or otherwise to
construct, operate and maintain a cable communications system in the city.
5. 32 (2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Grantee" means the person, firm or corporation to whom or which a franchise, as
defined in this section, is granted by Council under this chapter, and the lawful successor,
transferee or assignee of said person, firm or corporation.
Grantor" means the City of Vista acting through its Council.
Gross Revenues" means any and all revenues, directly or indirectly received by
grantee from its Vista cable communications system, not including any taxes on services
furnished by the grantee, which taxes are imposed directly on a subscriber or user by a city,
county, state or other governmental unit, and collected by the grantee for such entity.
Institution" means a building or buildings, facility or facilities, where service may be
utilized in connection with business, trade, profession, public agency or service, school or
nonprofit organization.
Institutional Network" means a cable communications network designed principally
for the provision of non- entertainment interactive services to businesses, schools, public
agencies, or other nonprofit agencies for use in connection with the ongoing operations of such
institutions.
Institutional Services" means services delivered on the institutional subscriber
network.
Institutional Subscriber" means a place of business, public agency, school, or
nonprofit corporation receiving institutional services on the institutional subscriber network.
Interactive Services" means services provided to subscribers where the subscriber
either:
1. Both receives information consisting of either television or other signals
and transmits signals generated by the subscriber or equipment under his/ her control for the
purpose of selecting what information shall be transmitted to the subscriber or for any other
purpose; or
2. Transmits signals to any other location for any purpose.
Leased Access Channel" means any channel or portion of a channel available for
programming for a fee or charge by persons or entities other than the grantee.
Local Origination Channel" means any channel or portion of a channel where the
grantee is the only designated programmer, and which is utilized to provide television programs
to subscribers.
Premium" or " Pay-TV Service" means pay- per-program, pay- per-channel, or
subscription cable service, i. e., delivered to subscribers for a fee or charge over and above the
regular charges for basic service.
Public Access Channel" means any channel or portion of a channel where any
member of the general public may be a programmer on a first-come, first-served basis, subject
to appropriate rules formulated by the City and/ or the grantee.
Residential Network" means a cable communications network designed principally for
the delivery of entertainment, community access and/ or interactive services to individual
dwelling units.
Residential Services" means services delivered on the residential network.
Residential Subscriber" means a subscriber who receives residential services on the
residential network.
Street, Public Ways or Rights-of-Way" means the surface of and the space above
and below any public street, avenue, road, highway, freeway, boulevard, lane, concourse,
driveway, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway, sidewalk, waterway, dock, pier, alley, court, right- ofway,
public utility easement, or any other public place, ground or water, now or hereafter
existing within the city.
Subscriber" means any person or institution that elects to subscribe to, for any
purpose, a service provided by the grantee by means of or in connection with the cable
communications system whether or not a fee is paid for such service.
5. 32 (3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Tapping" means the observing of a communications signal exchange where the
observer is neither of the communicating parties, whether the exchange is observed by visual or
electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever.
Prior Code 6C- 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.030 Franchise Grant - Authority
It is unlawful to engage in or commence construction, operation, or maintenance of a
cable communications system without a franchise issued under this chapter. The Council may,
by ordinance, award a nonexclusive franchise to construct, operate, and maintain a cable
communications system within all or any portion of the city to any person, whether operating
under an existing franchise or not, who makes application for authority to furnish a cable
communications system which complies with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
Provided, that this section shall not be deemed to require the grant of a franchise, other than as
stipulated in federal law, to any particular person or to prohibit the Council from restricting the
number of grantees should it determine such a restriction would be in the public interest. Any
franchise for the construction, maintenance and operation of cable television systems using the
public streets, utility easements, other public rights-of-way or places shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 6C- 3. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.040 Franchise Grant - Incorporation by Reference
A. The provisions of any request for proposals ( RFP) issued under the provisions of
this chapter, including any minimum system and services specifications set forth therein, may
be incorporated by reference in any franchise agreement approved under this chapter.
B. The provisions of any franchise application or proposal submitted and accepted
by the City may be incorporated by reference in the applicable franchise.
Prior Code 6C- 3. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.050 Franchise Grant - Nature and Extent
Any franchise granted under the provisions of this chapter by the City authorizes the
grantee, subject to the provisions contained in this chapter:
A. To engage in the business of operating and providing cable communication
service and the distribution and sale of such service to subscribers within the city.
B. To erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain, and retain in,
on, over, under, upon, across, and along any street, such amplifiers and appliances,
attachments, supporting structures, and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to
the cable communications system; and, in addition, so to use, operate, and provide similar
facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons, firms or corporations, including, but
not limited to, any public utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do business in the
city.
C. To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the origination, collection,
transmission, amplification, distribution, and reception of electrical or radiant energy.
Prior Code 6C- 3. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.060 Franchise Grant - Duration
A. A franchise shall be effective on the 31s' day after approval of the franchise
agreement, provided that the grantee has filed, within 20 days after such effective date, a
5. 32 (4) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
written instrument, addressed to the Council, accepting a franchise, together with the insurance
policies and bond required by Sections 5. 32. 420 through 5. 32.440 of this chapter, agreeing to
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
B. Franchise duration is as set forth in the franchise agreement. A franchise expires
upon passage of such franchise duration commencing with grantee' s acceptance of franchise
award unless sooner terminated by ordinance pursuant to the terms of this chapter, and in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the franchise agreement, which
incorporates the terms and conditions of this chapter by reference.
C. 1. The Council may terminate any franchise granted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter in the event of the willful failure, refusal, or neglect by grantee to do or
comply with any material requirement, specification, or limitation contained in this chapter, or
other applicable rule or regulation of the Council or City Manager lawfully adopted pursuant to
this chapter.
2. The City Manager may make written demand that the grantee comply
with any such requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule, or regulation. Such demand shall
set forth the exact nature of the grantee' s alleged noncompliance. If the failure, refusal, or
neglect continues after notice for an unreasonable period of time, determined as such by
Council, following such written demand, the City Manager may place the request for termination
of the franchise upon the next regular Council meeting agenda. The City Manager shall cause
to be served upon such grantee, at least 30 days prior to the date of such Council meeting, a
written notice of the intent to request such termination, and the time and place of the meeting.
3. The Council shall consider the request of the City Manager and shall hear
any persons interested therein, and shall determine, whether or not any failure, refusal, or
neglect by the grantee was with just cause. If such failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee
was with just cause, the Council shall direct the grantee to comply within such time and manner
and upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable.
4. If the Council determines such failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee
was without just cause, then the Council may, after public hearing, by ordinance, declare that
the franchise with such grantee shall be terminated and forfeited, and grantee shall be required
to sell all interests and title in all of its plant and system operated under the franchise including
any rights under the unexpired portion of the franchise.
5. Nothing in this section is intended to deprive or limit grantee' s rights to the
protection of due process of law, both procedural and substantive, nor to limit grantee' s rights as
provided for by federal and state law.
D. 1. In the event of termination, the City may purchase, or require any
successor grantee to purchase grantee' s facilities at a cost not to exceed its then- fair market
value ( not depreciated book value). The purchase price shall be reduced for uncompensated
damages incurred by the City in connection with the grantee' s operation, as determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction. In the event the parties are unable to agree on the fair market
value of grantee' s system as specified above, grantee and the purchaser each shall select one
qualified appraiser experienced in the evaluation of cable communications systems.
2. The two selected appraisers shall select a third appraiser. The three
appraisers shall be employed to determine the fair market value of grantee' s system. The fair
evaluation shall be the average of the three evaluations of the appraisers. The appraisers shall
be directed to reach their determination within 30 days. Grantee and the purchaser shall each
pay 50 percent of the costs of employing such appraisers.
3. In the event of a material breach resulting in a termination of the franchise
in accordance with the provisions in this section, the term " fair market value" shall not include
the rights granted pursuant to the franchise.
E. Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to impair or affect, in any
way or to any extent, the right of the City to acquire the property of the grantee through the
5. 32 (5) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
exercise of the right of eminent domain, nor any other of the rights of the City under the
franchise or any provision of law.
F. In the event of any holding over after expiration or other termination of any
franchise granted hereunder, the grantee shall pay to the City all fees consistent with the
provisions in this section as if there had not been such holding over and as if the terms and
conditions of the franchise continued in full force and effect. In the event of any such holding
over, in direct contravention by grantee of a final valid order of the City expressed by resolution
and affirmed by a court of competent jurisdiction, upon notice requiring grantee to cease and
desist all operations upon a certain date, then and in that event, the grantee shall pay to the
City, reasonable compensation and damages of not more than 50 percent of its gross revenue
derived from all sources within the city during said period.
Prior Code 6C- 3. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.070 Construction of Franchise - Interpretation
Unless otherwise specifically prescribed in this chapter, the following provisions shall
govern the interpretation and construction of a franchise:
A. Time is of the essence. Neither the grantee nor the City shall be relieved of its
obligation to promptly comply with any provision of this chapter, or with the ordinance granting
the franchise, by failure of the City or the grantee to enforce prompt compliance with the same
or any other provision.
B. Any right or power conferred, or duty imposed upon any officer, employee,
department, or board of the City, is subject to transfer by operation of law to any other officer,
employee, department, or board of the City.
C. The grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the City for any loss,
costs, expense, or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of a franchise or the
lawful enforcement thereof.
D. A franchise does not relieve the grantee of any requirement of the City or of any
ordinance, rule, regulation, or specification of the City, including, but not limited to, any
requirement relating to street work, street excavation permits or the use, removal, or relocation
of property in streets.
E. The granting of a franchise, or any of the provisions contained in this chapter,
shall not be construed to prevent the City from granting any identical or similar franchise to any
person or corporation other than the grantee, so long as such other franchise includes
essentially the same material terms and conditions of any franchise previously issued under this
chapter.
Prior Code 6C-4. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.080 Construction of Franchise - Limitations Upon Grant
A. No privilege or exemption is granted or conferred by a franchise except those
specifically prescribed in this chapter.
B. Any privilege claimed under a franchise by the grantee in any street is
subordinate to any prior lawful permanent occupancy of the street. The City reserves the right
to reasonably designate where a grantee' s facilities are to be placed within the public ways.
C. A franchise is a privilege to be held in personal trust by the original grantee. It
cannot in any event be transferred in part, and it is not to be sold, transferred, leased, merged,
assigned, or disposed of as a whole, either by forced sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise,
without prior consent of the City expressed by resolution, and then only under such conditions
as may be therein prescribed; provided, however, that no such consent shall be unreasonably
5. 32 (6) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
withheld, nor be required for any intercorporate transfer, or for any transfer in trust, mortgage, or
other hypothecation, as a whole, to secure an indebtedness.
D. The grantee shall at all times comply with all applicable present and future rules
of the Federal Communications Commission.
E. A grantee shall, at all times during the life of its franchise, be subject to the lawful
exercise of the City' s police power and such reasonable regulations as the Council may
subsequently promulgate thereunder.
F. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit in any way the right
of the City to provide, for consideration, rights, or privileges in addition to those set forth in
Section 5. 32. 050.
G. Any franchise granted shall not relieve the grantee of any obligations involved in
obtaining pole or conduit space from any department of the City, utility company, or from others
maintaining utilities in the public ways.
H. Whenever, in the judgment of the grantor, it is deemed impracticable to permit
erection of poles or construction of underground conduit system by any utility which may at the
time have authority to construct or maintain a conduit or poles in street area, the grantor may,
where not inconsistent with good engineering practices, require the grantee to afford to such
utility the right to use such poles or facilities of the grantee as the grantor finds practicable in
common with the grantee, both as they may agree upon, but in case they fail to agree within a
reasonable time, then upon such terms, conditions, and regulations governing the same as the
grantor may determine to be just and reasonable. Grantee may impose reasonable conditions
and fees for such use.
I. Any franchise granted shall be in lieu of any and all other conflicting rights,
privileges, powers, immunities and authorities owned, possessed, controlled, or exercisable
under other City law or regulation by grantee, or any successor to any interest of grantee, of or
pertaining to the construction, operation, or maintenance of any cable communications system
in the city, and shall be construed as an abandonment of any and all of such rights, privileges,
powers, immunities and authorities within the city to the effect that, as between grantee and the
City, and all construction, operation, and maintenance by any grantee of any cable
communications system in the city shall be, and shall be deemed and construed in all instances
and respects to be under and pursuant to said franchise, and not under or pursuant to any other
right, privilege, power, immunity, or authority whatsoever.
J. No franchise shall authorize use of any public property other than public right-ofway
and public utility easements owned by the City, unless such franchise or subsequent
resolution of the Council expressly authorizes such other public property.
K. Grantee is subject to all provisions of the other ordinances, rules, regulations,
and other provisions of the City heretofore or hereafter adopted, including, but not limited to,
those pertaining to works and activities in, on, over, under, and about public rights-of-way.
L. Any privilege claimed, under such franchise granted, in any public right- of-way or
other public property is subordinate to the public use thereof.
M. Grantee is subject to the provisions of general laws of the State of California or
as hereafter amended, when applicable to the exercise of any privilege contained in any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to works
and activities in and about state highways.
N. Grantee is prohibited from directly or indirectly doing any of the following:
1. Soliciting, referring or causing or permitting the solicitation or referral of
any subscriber to persons engaged in any business prohibited in this chapter to be engaged in
by grantee.
2. Providing information concerning the viewing patterns of identifiable
subscribers to any group, organization, or person for any purposes.
5. 32 (7) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Install, maintain, or operate on any television set a coin box or any other
device or means for on- site collection of money for individual programs.
O. If the Federal Communications Commission or any other federal or state body or
agency now or hereafter exercises any paramount jurisdiction over the subject matter of any
franchise granted, then to the extent such jurisdiction preempts or precludes the exercise of like
jurisdiction by the City, the jurisdiction of the City shall cease and no longer exist.
P. The preemption or preclusion of the exercise by the City of any of its police
power shall not diminish, impair, or affect any other contractual benefit to the City or grantee nor
any contractual obligation of the grantee under the franchise granted.
Q. Any and all minimum standards governing the operations of grantee and any and
all minimum rates, ratios, and charges specified in any franchise granted, existing now and at
any time in the future, including such time as any paramount jurisdiction preempts or precludes
that of the City, and any and all rights, powers, privileges, and authorities of the City to
determine, establish, or fix any of the same, are each and all declared by the City and by any
grantees accepting any franchise to be contractual in nature and to be for the benefit of the City.
R. The form of the grantee' s contract with the subscriber shall also be subject to
review and comment by the City.
S. It is not the City' s intention to prohibit the erection or controlled use of individual
television antennas, and no one is or will be required to receive cable communications service
or connect with a cable communications system.
T. Should the grantee ever fail to pay any sum of money to the City, owed to the
City under provisions of this chapter, or the franchise ordinance, when such sum becomes due
and payable, grantee shall pay interest to the City on the delinquent sum, until it is fully paid at
two interest points above the prime rate of interest charged in the San Diego area as calculated
by the City.
U. A franchise to proceed with operation, or construction and operation, of a cable
communications system shall not be construed as any limitation upon the right of the City to
grant to other persons or corporations, rights, privileges, or authority in the same or other
streets, alleys, public highways, public places, or other public rights- of-way by agreement,
franchise, permit, or otherwise.
Prior Code 6C-4. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.090 Construction of Franchise - Rights Reserved to City
There is provided and reserved to the City every right and power which is required to be
in this chapter reserved or provided by any provision of the City or its ordinances, as amended,
and the grantee, by its acceptance of a franchise, agrees to be bound thereby and to comply
with any action or requirement of the City in its exercise of any such right or power.
A. Neither the granting of a franchise nor any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power of the City,
including regulation of subscription rates as permitted by law.
B. Nothing in this chapter and/ or in the franchise shall be deemed or construed to
impair or affect, in any way, to any extent, either by purchase or through the exercise of the right
of eminent domain, if any, at a fair and just value, which shall not include any amount for the
franchise itself or any of the rights or privileges granted thereby, and nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to contract away or to modify or abridge, whether for a term or in
perpetuity, the City' s right of eminent domain.
C. There is reserved to the City every right and power which is required to be
reserved or provided by law, and the grantee, by its acceptance of the franchise, agrees to be
bound thereby and to comply with any action or agreements of the City in its exercise of such
rights and power, theretofore or thereafter enacted or established.
5. 32 (8) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Neither the granting of the franchise nor any provision thereof constitutes a
waiver or bar to the exercise of any governmental right or power of the City.
E. 1. The City Manager and the City Attorney, with the approval of the Council,
are authorized to adjust, settle, or compromise any controversy or charge arising from the
operations of any grantee under the franchise(s), either on behalf of the City, the grantee or any
subscriber, in the best interest of the public.
2. The City reserves to itself the right to intervene in any suit, action, or
proceeding involving any provision of this chapter and/ or grantee' s franchise. The Council may
do all things which are necessary and convenient in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this
chapter and/ or grantee' s franchise, and may determine any question of fact which may arise
during the existence of any franchise granted.
F. The City at its option, when for reasonable cause as determined by the Council,
may require that the annual proof-of-performance tests, addressed in Sections 5. 32. 140 through
5. 32. 180 of this chapter, be conducted or observed by a qualified member of the City' s staff or
its designated representatives. The City reserves the right to have the measurements
associated with the City observed performance tests conducted at City selected points and at a
greater, but reasonable, number of test points than the minimum required by Section 76. 601 of
the FCC Rules.
G. Any delegable right, power, or duty of the Council, the City or any officials of the
City may be transferred or delegated to an appropriate officer, employee, or department of the
City.
H. The City reserves the right to negotiate other reasonable technical and
operational performance standards for system franchises granted pursuant to this chapter.
Grantee shall have the duty to negotiate in good faith with the City.
I. The City reserves the right to enact reasonable regulations pertaining to any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter which may include, but are not limited to:
1. Construction and use of poles
2. Use of poles and conduits by the City
3. Common user
4. Filing of pole user agreement
5. Reservation of street rights
6. Restoration of streets
7. Movement of facilities
J. Subject to federal and state law, the City reserves the right to further regulate the
conduct of the grantee in regard to the privacy and property rights of private citizens. Such
regulations may include, but are not limited to, the security of all records maintained by the
grantee containing privacy sensitive information, personnel practices relating to such records
and any other matters related to privacy and individual rights.
K. The City reserves the right to maintain, or establish and maintain, a cable
communications advisory committee to assist the Council in regulating cable activity in the city.
The members and duties of any such committee, if any, are to be as established by the Council.
L. The City reserves the right to join with one or more of the other local area city
and/ or county governments in the formation and operation of an intergovernmental
administrative authority for the purpose of joint administration of the cable communications
franchises of the various members of the joint authority. The City reserves the right to assign
the administration of the provisions of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter to such a
duly established joint authority, and to join with other members of the authority in developing
such intergovernmental agreement bylaws, rules and regulations as necessary for the proper
administration of the joint authority.
M. Should the State of California, or any agency thereof, or the federal government
or agency thereof subsequently require the grantee to act in a manner which is inconsistent with
5. 32 (9) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
any provisions of this chapter, franchise ordinance, or associated resolutions and orders, the
grantee shall notify the City immediately. Upon receipt of such notification, the City shall
determine if a material provision of the franchise is affected. Upon such determination, the City
has the right to modify or amend any of the sections of the franchise to such reasonable extent
as may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this chapter. In the event that
the City determines that substantial and material compliance with the original proposed terms of
the franchise has been frustrated by such state or federal government requirement, grantee
shall renegotiate in good faith with the City alternate franchise provisions in accordance with
federal and state law.
N. No grantee nor any major stockholder of a grantee shall directly or indirectly use
the position as cable grantee to gain a competitive advantage in the business of selling, leasing,
renting, servicing, or repairing radio or television sets or receivers or parts thereof, or data
access and transfer equipment not originally provided to subscribers by grantee which makes
use of entertainment and information signals, provided that nothing therein shall prevent grantee
from making modifications to the tuner input circuit of the subscribers' communications
transmitters and/ or receivers, and the fine tuning of the subscribers' operating controls only, to
ensure proper operation under conditions of cable connection at the time of installation, or in
repairing receivers and other equipment belonging to other cable operators for use in the
conduct of their business.
O. The City has the right, free of charge, of installing, maintaining, and operating,
upon antenna towers, poles, and in conduit of the grantee, coaxial cable, wire, fixtures, and
appurtenances necessary for a city communications system; provided that it is practical, that it
is installed according to standard engineering practice, and that such equipment is installed,
maintained and operated so as not to interfere with property or operations of the grantee.
Grantee shall be held harmless from any responsibility for damage to City equipment resulting
from grantee' s normal use and operation of grantee' s equipment. Grantee shall not be
responsible for any damage without his/ her fault resulting to the signs, wires, cables, or property
of the City from such use by the City.
P. To the extent permitted by federal and state law, any intrastate interconnection of
interactive services between the system operated by grantee and any other system is subject to
the regulatory authority of the City.
Q. The reservation of any particular right shall not be construed to limit the
promulgation of any other reasonable rules and regulations.
Prior Code 6C-4. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 100 Franchising Procedures - Initial Application
A. This chapter itself grants no authority to operate a cable communications system
to any person( s). Such grants are made only by the adoption of a separate ordinance awarding
a specific franchise to an applicant who has complied with the provisions of this chapter.
B. Each application for a franchise, not including application for replacement or
renewal of franchises, to construct, operate, or maintain any cable communications system( s) in
this city shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall contain or be accompanied by the following,
as a minimum:
1. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
2. A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant including, but not limited to, the following and to whatever extent
required by the City:
a. The names, residence, and business addresses of all officers,
directors, and associates of the applicant.
5. 32 ( 10) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
b. The names, residence, and business addresses of all officers,
persons, and entities having, controlling or being entitled to have or control one percent or more
of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity.
C. The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part or
owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a statement describing the nature
of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including, but not limited to, cable television
systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent and subsidiary, and the areas served
thereby.
d. A detailed description of all previous experience of the applicant in
providing cable television communications system service in related or similar fields.
e. A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant.
f. A statement identifying, by place and date, any and all cable
television franchises awarded the applicant, or its parent or subsidiary; the status of said
franchises with respect to completion thereof; the total cost of such systems; and the amount of
applicant' s and its parent's or subsidiary' s resources committed to the completion thereof.
3. A thorough, detailed description of the proposed cable communications
system and plan of operation of the applicant which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
a. A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served and a
proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational
throughout the entire area to be served.
b. A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the
actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant. In no event shall said
operational and performance standards be less than those adopted by the rules and regulations
of the FCC ( contained in Title 47, Subpart K, Sections 76.601 et seq.), and as may be
augmented and modified by the franchise awarded.
C. A detailed estimate of the cost of constructing the applicant's
proposed system.
d. A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other
instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber.
e. A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all
agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral or implied, existing or
proposed to exist, between the applicant and any person, firm or corporation which materially
relate or pertain to or depend upon the application and the granting of the franchise.
f. A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications
of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of
said classifications, including installation charges and service charges.
4. A copy of any agreement existing between the applicant and any public
utility subject to regulation by the California Public Utilities Commission providing for the use of
any facilities of the public utility, including, but not limited to, poles, lines, or conduits within the
city and/ or adjacent areas.
5. Any other details, statements, information or references pertinent to the
subject matter of such application which are required or requested by the Council, or by any
provision of any other ordinance of the City.
6. An application fee in a sum to be set by the City which shall be in the form
of cash, certified or cashier' s check, or money order, to pay the costs of studying, investigating,
and otherwise processing such application, and which shall be in consideration thereof and not
returnable or refundable in whole or in part, except to the extent that such fee exceeds the
actual costs incurred by the City in studying, investigating, and otherwise processing the
application; provided, that any applicant who shall deliver to the City Clerk a written withdrawal
5. 32 ( 11) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
of or cancellation of any application following the date such application is received by the City
Clerk, shall be entitled to have returned and refunded the sum of 50 percent of the fee less any
actual costs or expenses incurred by the City by reason of such application.
C. Except as may be preempted by federal and/ or state law, the Council may, by
advertisement or otherwise, solicit for any other applications for cable communications system
franchises, and may determine and fix any date upon, after, or before which the same shall be
received by the City, or the date before which the same shall not be received, and may make
any other determinations and specify any other times, terms, conditions, or limitations
respecting the soliciting, calling for, making, and receiving of such applications.
D. Upon receipt of any application for franchise, the Council shall refer the same to
the City Manager or cable communications advisory committee, if such exists, who shall
prepare a report and make recommendations respecting such application, and cause the same
to be completed and filed with the Council within 120 days.
E. In making any determinations under the provisions of this chapter as to any
application, the Council shall give due consideration to the character and quality of the service
proposed, rates to subscribers, experience, character, background, and financial responsibility
of any applicant, and its management and owners, technical and performance quality of
equipment, willingness and ability to meet construction and physical requirements, and to abide
by policy conditions, franchise limitations and requirements, and any other consideration
deemed pertinent by the Council for safeguarding the interest of the City and the public. The
Council, in its discretion, shall determine the award of any franchise on the basis of such
considerations and without competitive bidding.
F. If the Council, after public hearing, determines to reject such application, such
determination is final and conclusive, and the same shall be deemed rejected.
G. If the Council determines to further consider the application, the following shall be
done:
1. The Council shall decide and specify the terms and conditions of any
franchise to be granted under this chapter and as provided in this chapter.
2. The Council shall give notice of its intention to consider the granting of
such a franchise, stating the names of the proposed grantee, and that copies of the proposed
franchise may be reviewed at the Office of the City Clerk, fixing and setting forth a time and
public place certain when and where interested parties may inspect all the bona fide
applications, fixing and setting forth a day, hour, and place certain when and where any persons
having any interest therein or objection to the granting thereof may file written protests and
appear before the Council and be heard, and directing the City Clerk to publish notice of said
resolution' s adoption at least once within ten days of the passage thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city.
H. At the time set for the hearing, or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall
proceed to hear all written protests. Thereafter, the Council shall make one of the following
determinations:
1. That such franchise be denied.
2. That such franchise be granted upon such conditions as the Council
deems appropriate, which conditions may include, on a not- to-exceed basis, where in
accordance with applicable federal and state regulations and laws:
a. Charges for installation
b. Subscriber rates
C. Service rates for separate classifications of service such as
additional connections.
5. 32 ( 12) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
I. If the Council determines that a franchise be denied, such determination shall be
expressed by resolution. If the Council determines that a franchise be granted, such
determination shall be expressed by ordinance granting a franchise to the applicant. The action
of the Council shall be final and conclusive.
J. The grantee, within 30 days of receipt of written notification by grantor following
franchise award, upon initial franchise award and any renewal thereof, shall pay to the City a
sum of money to reimburse the City for all expenses incurred by the provisions of this chapter
regarding the franchise award or renewal process, beyond those defrayed by application fees.
The City shall furnish grantee a statement of such expenses with the notification.
Prior Code 6C- 5. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 110 Franchising Procedures - Replacement Franchise
A. The service provided by the grantee under a franchise may be required to
continue uninterrupted beyond the expiration or cancellation of a franchise, but not for longer
than 24 months thereafter. Except as may be preempted by federal or state law at the time
approaching franchise expiration, to assure continued service to the subscribers, the City shall
issue a request for proposals for a replacement franchise not later than 24 months prior to
expiration of a franchise. The RFP shall include the minimum acceptable level of system
capability, services, rates, access, etc., as determined by the City, to meet the needs of the
Vista community. If the Council deems grantee' s past performance to warrant consideration for
franchise renewal, then the City shall provide grantee first right of refusal in accepting the
franchise offered. However, if the Council deems grantee' s past performance to not warrant
such consideration, or if grantee elects to not accept the franchise offered under its first right of
refusal, then the City may solicit other applications with the understanding that no further
consideration will be given to awarding the incumbent grantee a replacement franchise.
B. Franchises will normally not be renewed for periods in excess of 15 years, and
may be renewed prior to expiration of an existent franchise in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Subsection A of this section.
C. If the City Council elects to provide the incumbent grantee the first right of refusal
addressed in Subsection C of this section, then the RFP issued by the City shall advise other
potential applicants accordingly, and will provide for the full return of any application fee
received from an applicant other than the incumbent in the event the incumbent accepts the
franchise offered and the other applicant(s) withdraws.
D. If the City Council after public hearing elects to not consider the incumbent
grantee for a replacement franchise, then it shall do so by resolution after public hearing and
prior to issuance of an RFP for the replacement franchise. The City shall not arbitrarily or
unreasonably deny consideration of the incumbent grantee, nor shall consideration be denied
for reasons outside grantee' s reasonable control. However, if the City does so elect, the City
may purchase or require any successor grantee to purchase grantee' s facilities for a cost not to
exceed its fair market value, with a reduction for any uncompensated damages incurred by the
City in connection with grantee' s operation as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Fair market value to be determined in accordance with the process set forth in Section 5. 32. 060
D of this chapter. The parties shall divide expenses of arbitration, if any, evenly among
themselves.
E. Upon request of the grantee, or the City, the grantee and the City shall
alternatively conduct renewal procedures under applicable provisions of the Federal law.
Prior Code 6C- 5. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 13) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 32. 120 Franchising Procedures - Franchise Acceptance
A. No franchise granted under this chapter shall become effective for any purpose
unless and until written acceptance thereof, together with the bond and insurance policies and
deposits required by Sections 5. 32.420 through 5. 32. 450 of this chapter, have been filed with
the City Clerk. Written acceptance, which shall be in the form and substance approved by the
City Attorney, shall also be and operate as an acceptance of each and every term and condition
and limitation contained in this chapter, and in such franchise, or otherwise specified as herein
and therein provided.
B. The written acceptance shall be filed by the grantee within 20 days after the
effective date of the ordinance granting such franchise. In the event this day falls on a
nonworking day, then the next working day will suffice.
C. In default of the filing of such written acceptance as required in this section, the
grantee shall be deemed to have rejected and repudiated the franchise. Thereafter, the
acceptance of the grantee shall not be received nor filed by the City Clerk. Except as may be
provided by federal or state laws, the grantee shall have no rights, remedies, or redress in the
premises, unless and until the Council, by resolution, determines that such acceptance be
received or filed, and then upon such terms and conditions as the Council may impose.
D. In any case, and in any instance, all rights, remedies, and redress which may or
are available to the City, shall at all times be available to the City, and shall be preserved and
maintained and shall continuously exist in and to the City, and shall not be in any manner or
means modified, abridged, altered, restricted, or impaired by reason of any of these premises or
otherwise.
E. Any franchise granted and accepted under this chapter shall be in lieu of any and
all other conflicting rights, privileges, powers, immunities, and authorities owned, possessed,
controlled, or exercisable by the grantee and granted by the City, of or pertaining to the
construction, operation, or maintenance of any cable communications system( s) in the city.
Prior Code 6C- 5. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 130 Franchising Procedures - Transfer or Assignment
A. Any such franchise is a privilege to be held in personal trust by the grantee. The
franchise shall not be sublet or assigned, nor shall any rights or privileges therein granted or
authorized be leased, assigned, mortgaged, sold, transferred, or disposed of either in whole or
in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, nor shall title thereto, either legal or equitable, or any right, interest, or property
therein, pass to or vest in any person( s), except the grantee, either by act of the grantee or by
operation of law, without the consent of the City expressed by ordinance.
B. The grantee shall promptly notify the City of any proposed change in, or transfer
of, or acquisition by, any other party of control of the grantee with respect to which the consent
of the grantor is required, pursuant to Subsection A of this section. Such change of control shall
make this franchise subject to revocation unless and until the Council has consented thereto.
C. Consent of the Council shall not be granted until it has examined the proposed
assignee' s legal, financial, technical, character, and other qualifications to construct, operate,
and maintain a cable communications system in the city and has afforded all interested parties
notice and an opportunity to be heard on the question. The grantee shall assist the City in any
such examination.
D. The said consent of the Council may not be unreasonably refused; provided,
however, the proposed assignee must show financial responsibility as determined by Council
and this chapter; and provided further, that no such consent is required for a transfer in trust,
mortgage, or other hypothecation, in whole or in part, to secure an indebtedness, except that
5. 32 ( 14) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
when such hypothecation exceeds by 50 percent of this market value of the property used by
the grantee in the conduct of the cable communications system, prior consent of the Council is
required for such transfer.
E. In the event that grantee is a corporation, prior approval of the Council is required
where there is an actual change in control or where ownership of more than 50 percent of the
voting stock of grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of
whom already own 50 percent or more of the voting stock, singly or collectively. Any such
acquisition occurring without prior approval of the Council shall constitute a failure to comply
with a provision of this chapter within the meaning of Subsection C of Section 5. 32. 060.
Nothing in the subsection is intended to preclude the intracorporate transfer by the grantee of a
franchise issued pursuant to this chapter.
F. Any such transfer or assignment shall be made by an instrument in writing, which
shall include acceptance of all terms and conditions of the franchise, a duly executed copy of
which shall be filed with the City Clerk within 30 days after any such transfer or assignment.
Prior Code 6C- 5. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 140 System Design, Construction, and Technical Performance
Standards - Standards
Standards of cable communications system( s) design, construction, safety, and
operation will meet, but not be limited to, all applicable city, state and national/ federal codes,
rules, regulations and specifications referenced and/ or set forth in this chapter and the franchise
agreement, including those documents incorporated therein by reference.
Prior Code 6C- 6. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 150 System Design, Construction, and Technical Performance
Standards - Compatibility
All cable communications systems authorized to be constructed and/ or operated
pursuant to this chapter shall be, insofar as financially and technically feasible, compatible with
another.
Prior Code 6C- 6. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 160 System Design, Construction, and Technical Performance
Standards - Preventative Maintenance
A comprehensive routine preventative maintenance program shall be developed,
effected and maintained for each system by the respective grantee to ensure continued top
quality cable communications operating standards in consonance with FCC Part 76 and the
technical specifications stipulated in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 6. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 170 System Design, Construction, and Technical Performance
Standards - Proof of Performance
The services of a newly constructed system, or one that has undergone a major
upgrade, shall not be offered for sale prior to proof-of-performance testing in accordance with
FCC Part 76.601 and technical specifications and standards as set forth in the franchise
agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 6. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 15) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 32. 180 System Design, Construction, and Technical Performance
Standards - Corrective Maintenance
Grantee' s corrective maintenance program shall render efficient corrective service, make
repairs promptly, and interrupt subscriber service only for good cause and for the shortest
possible time. Such interruptions shall be preceded by notice where practicable and shall occur
during a period of minimum use of the system if feasible. A written log shall be maintained of all
service interruptions. The log shall reflect the date, time, duration and reason for each service
interruption. The record of the log shall be kept on file for a minimum of three years.
Prior Code 6C- 6. 5; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32. 190 Construction - Permits
A. Within 30 days of acceptance of franchise, the grantee shall proceed with due
diligence to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of
its business, including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment agreements,
encroachment permits, microwave carrier licenses, and any other permits, licenses, and
authorizations to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
operation of cable television/ communications systems or associated microwave transmission
facilities.
B. In connection with Subsection A of this section, copies of all petitions,
applications, and communications submitted by the grantee to the FCC, Securities and
Exchange Commission or any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having
jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting grantee' s cable communications operations, shall
also be submitted simultaneously to the City Manager for information purposes.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.200 Construction - Generally
A. Within 90 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and authorizations,
including right of access to poles and conduits, grantee shall commence system construction,
extension, and/ or upgrade as appropriate under the franchise agreement.
B. Within 240 days following franchise award, grantee shall proceed to render
service to subscribers in accordance with its system construction, extension, and/ or upgrade
commitments under the franchise agreement. The completion of the system construction,
extension, and/ or upgrade shall be pursued with reasonable diligence thereafter, so that service
to all of the areas designated and scheduled on the map and plan of construction made part of
the franchise agreement shall be provided as set forth therein.
C. Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue each of the
foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set forth in this section, except as
otherwise provided for in the franchise agreement, is grounds for termination of such franchise.
By resolution and order, the Council, shall extend the time for the commencement and
completion of construction, extension, and/ or upgrade for additional periods in the event the
grantee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by reason of circumstances beyond his
control.
D. The City has the right, free of charge, to make additional use, for any public or
municipal purpose, of any poles, conduits or other similar facilities erected, controlled, or
maintained exclusively by or for grantee in any street, provided such use by the City does not
interfere with the use by grantee and is installed in accordance with standard engineering
practices. Grantee shall be held harmless from any responsibility for damage to City equipment
resulting from grantee' s normal use and operation of grantee' s equipment. Grantee shall not be
5. 32 ( 16) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
responsible for any damage without his/ her fault resulting to the signs, wires, cables, or property
of the City from such use by the City.
E. Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other facilities whenever
possible, and shall not construct or install any new, different, or additional poles, conduits or
other facilities whether on public property or on privately owned property unless and until first
securing the written approval of the City' s Director of Public Works.
F. In all sections of the city where wires, cables and other system appurtenances
are mounted aboveground, every reasonable effort shall be made to minimize obstruction of the
view of residents, and every reasonable effort shall be made to preclude an unsightly system
installation.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.210 Construction - Underground Facilities
A. Unless otherwise authorized by Council, in those areas and portions of the city
where the transmission and/ or distribution facilities of the public utility providing telephone
service, and those of the utility providing electric service, are underground or hereafter are
placed underground, or are to be placed underground by a builder, developer or subdivider as
part of a development or subdivision, then the grantee shall likewise construct, operate, and
maintain all its transmission and distribution facilities underground to the maximum extent that
existing technology permits the grantee to do so.
B. In new developments or subdivisions, the developer shall be responsible for the
performance of all necessary trenching and backfilling of main line and service trenches for the
provision of cable television, including furnishing of any imported backfill material required. The
developer will also be required to provide the grantee at least 90 days written prior notice, via
certified mail, as to approximately when the trenches will be open and available to grantee. A
copy of such notices will be sent, via regular mail to the City' s Director of Public Works. A
second notice, more definitive as to timing of the opening of the trench, will be required at least
30 days before such opening. If the developer fails, without due cause, to properly notify
grantee, then the City shall request the developer to reopen the trenches or grantee may seek
compensation from the developer for any necessary construction, at cost of labor and materials
only, and only for that portion exceeding standard costs incurred if the trench had been open. In
the event the developer for reasons beyond his reasonable control, is unable to meet such
timing of notices, and does, however, provide grantee the earliest practicable notice, then
grantee shall make every reasonable effort to fully respond despite the lesser time in
notification. If grantee does not, or is not able to so respond, then the City may require both
parties to submit any resultant disagreement for cost of installation of plant to binding arbitration.
Grantee is responsible for the conduct of the engineering and labor to put the cable conduit in
the trench. Prewiring of new dwellings for cable television, to grantee' s specifications, by
developer while under construction is mandatory, unless expressly approved to the contrary by
Council. The grantee is responsible for pulling in the cable, and providing the plant electronics
and drops to individual dwelling units, after occupancy.
C. In those areas and portions of the city where utility service and/ or cable
communications facilities are currently located underground, the grantee is responsible for the
undergrounding of its cable facilities including the performance of all necessary trenching and
backfilling of main line and service trenches, and furnishing of any imported backfill material
required.
D. Previously installed aerial cable shall be undergrounded in concert, and on a
cost-sharing basis, with utilities pursuant to the general ordinances of the City or applicable
state law, or in event such action is taken by all utilities, on a voluntary basis.
5. 32 ( 17) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Incidental appurtenances such as amplifier boxes and pedestal- mounted terminal
boxes may be placed aboveground, but shall be of such size and design and shall be so located
as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.220 Construction - System Extension
Grantee shall extend residential and institutional service ( the latter as set forth in the
franchise agreement) into every new subdivision and/ or development. The capacity to provide
cable communications service shall be available to newly constructed structures on the date of
first occupancy. Actual installation of service may be delayed up to 60 days from first
occupancy or until after final grading, whichever is first. Those new areas having more dwelling
units per strand mile of plant than the number stipulated in the franchise agreement, shall
receive residential service for the normal installation fee. In those areas where the number of
dwelling units per strand mile is less than the number stipulated in the franchise agreement,
grantee will provide residential cable service on a pro rata basis, sharing the costs with the
potential subscriber(s) as determined by a formulation set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.230 Construction - Conditions on Street Occupancy
A. Any pavements, sidewalks, curbing or other paved area taken up or any
excavations made by a grantee shall be done under permits issued for the work by proper
officials of the city, and under their supervision and direction, and shall be done in such a
manner as to give the least inconvenience to the inhabitants of the city. A grantee shall, at its
own cost and expense, and in a manner approved by the City' s Director of Public Works,
replace and restore any such pavements, sidewalks, curbing, or other paved areas in as good a
condition as before the work involving such disturbance was done and shall also make and
keep full and complete plats, maps, and records showing the exact locations of its facilities
located within the public streets, ways, and easements of the city. These maps shall be
available for inspection at any time during normal business hours by City officials.
B. A grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving permit
issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. The
expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person
requesting same, and the grantee has the authority to require such payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire
changes.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 5; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.240 Construction - Street Work
A. Upon any failure of the grantee, in response to written reasonable notice from the
City, to commence, pursue, or complete any work required of it by law or by the provisions of a
franchise to be done in any street, and after a reasonable time to effect a cure, the Council, at
its option and according to law, may cause such work to be done and the grantee shall pay to
the City the reasonable cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the Council to the
grantee, within 30 days after receipt of such itemized report.
B. In the event that any part of such system has been installed in any street or other
area without complying with the requirements hereof and/ or the franchise award ordinance; or
the use of any part of the system of grantee is discontinued for any reason for a continuous
period of 30 days, without prior written notice to and approval by the City, and after reasonable
5. 32 ( 18) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
opportunity to cure; or any franchise is terminated, cancelled, or expires, then the grantee shall,
at the option of the City, and at the expense of grantee and at no expense to the City, upon
demand of the City, promptly remove from any streets or other area all property of grantee, and
grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such property has been
removed to such condition as the City' s Director of Public Works reasonably approves.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 6; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.250 Changes Required by Public Improvement
The grantee, at his expense, shall protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate, or
remove any property of grantee when required by the Council by reason of traffic conditions,
public safety, street vacation, freeway, or street construction; change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, structures, or improvements by
governmental agencies whether acting in a governmental or proprietary capacity, or any other
structure of public improvement, including, but not limited to, movement of buildings, urban
renewal and redevelopment, and any general program under which the City undertakes to
cause all such properties to be located beneath the surface of the ground, provided, that
grantee shall in all cases have the privileges and be under the obligations as to the
abandonment of franchise property in place which are provided in Section 5. 32. 260.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 7; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.260 Removal or Abandonment of Grantee Property
A. In the event the use of any grantee property is permanently discontinued, or no
franchise has been obtained therefore, and within 12 months after any lawful termination or
expiration of a franchise, the grantee shall promptly remove from the streets all property
involved, other than the Council may, at its sole option, permit to be abandoned in place.
B. A permit to abandon in place must be obtained from the City' s Director of Public
Works. Nothing in this section shall be deemed as taking of the property of grantee, and
grantee shall be entitled to no surcharge by reason of anything under these provisions.
C. Any property of the grantee remaining in place 15 months after termination or
expiration of the franchise shall be considered permanently abandoned. The City' s Director of
Public Works may extend such time in one-month increments not to exceed two such
extensions, or a total of 17 months.
D. Grantee property to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such a
manner as the Council shall prescribe. Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place,
the grantee shall submit to the Council an instrument, satisfactory to the City Attorney,
transferring to the City the ownership of such property.
Prior Code 6C- 7. 8; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.270 System Maintenance
A. Generally. Throughout the life of a grantee' s franchise, and in addition to other
service regulations adopted by Council, and excepting circumstances beyond grantee' s control,
such as acts of God, riots, and civil disturbances, and in providing the foregoing services, a
grantee shall maintain all parts of its system in good condition and in accordance with standards
generally observed by the cable television industry. The system must serve individual
residents, but also serve as a broad- based communications source for city government, other
public facilities including hospitals, public libraries and schools, industrial, and commercial
business users.
5. 32 ( 19) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Service Reliability. Grantee shall, as well, retain sufficient employees to provide
safe, adequate and prompt service for all such residential subscribers, institutional facilities, and
business users. Grantee shall limit failures to minimum time duration by locating and correcting
malfunctioning as promptly as is reasonably possible.
Prior Code 6C- 8; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.280 Safety Requirements
Grantee shall, at all times install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures, and other
equipment in accordance with the requirements of the City' s building regulations and in such a
manner that they will not interfere with any installations of the city. Grantee shall keep and
maintain in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order and repair all its structures,
lines, equipment, and connections in, over, under, and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, and
public ways or places of the city wherever situated or located.
Prior Code 6C- 9; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.290 Operation and Service Service Area
Grantee' s system design, construction, extension, and/ or upgrade shall be such that
service shall be made available to all residential units within the grantee' s service area, as
defined in the franchise agreement, for the normal installation fee, with the exception that in
those locations where the dwelling units per strand mile of system plant are less than the
dwellings per mile figure stipulated in the franchise agreement, grantee shall provide cable
service on a pro- rata sharing of the installation costs with the potential subscribers. The pro- rata
sharing of costs will be in accordance with a formulation set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.300 Operation and Service - Establishment of Service
Subject to such regulations as may be adopted by Council and Section 5. 32. 290, the
grantee shall install cable television service to all persons making a timely and bona fide request
for such service at any location within the service area. After the grantee has established
service pursuant to a franchise in any area of the city, such service shall not be suspended or
abandoned unless such suspension or abandonment is authorized or ordered by Council.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.310 Operation and Service - Basic System Capability
A. A cable communications system, to be installed and operated pursuant to this
chapter and a franchise granted under these provisions shall, as a minimum, be operationally
capable of relaying to subscriber terminals those television and radio broadcast signals for the
carriage of what the grantee is now or thereafter authorized by the FCC; and distribute color
television signals which it received in color, and provide channel capacity and basic equipment
for program production in cablecasting public, educational, and government access uses.
B. The system should have a minimum capacity of downstream video channels as
stipulated in the franchise agreement, and have two-way operational capability, the latter to be
activated on a selective basis when technically and economically feasible, or as otherwise
mutually agreed upon by the City and grantee.
C. The cable communications system( s) permitted to be installed and operated
pursuant to this chapter may also engage in the business of transmitting original cablecast
5. 32 ( 20) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
programming not received through television broadcast signals, and transmitting any satellitedelivered
signals permitted by the FCC.
D. The system may also transmit television pictures, film, and videotape programs
not received through broadcast television signals, whether or not encoded or processed to
permit reception by only selected receivers or subscribers.
E. The system may also transmit and receive all other signals, digital, voice, and
audio-visual, not precluded by federal and state authorities.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.320 Operation and Service - Local Origination and/ or Access
Grantee shall provide and maintain local origination and/ or access facilities and
channels for the benefit of city residents as set forth in the franchise award ordinance.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.330 Operation and Service - Municipal Services
A. With respect to local government access, the grantee shall provide, at the
request of the City Council, the staff, equipment, and/or technical support necessary to
cablecast City Council meetings, subject to reimbursement of the grantee by the City of
grantee' s staff and technical support costs as stipulated in the franchise award ordinance.
B. With respect to basic television service, the grantee shall provide a standard drop
and all basic subscriber services, without cost, when the system passes such facilities and as
designated by the Council, to public schools and community colleges within the city, and
buildings owned and controlled by the City and used for public purposes and not for residential
use. The total number of such no- cost standard drops shall not exceed 30.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 5; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.340 Operation and Service - Interconnection
Grantee may be required to provide interconnection to systems serving residential areas
adjacent to the city. This and other possible system interconnections will be provided by
grantee as set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 6; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.350 Operation and Service - Emergency Service
A. The grantee may be required to design, construct, and maintain the system in a
manner to provide for a restricted audio and/ or video override of some or all audio channels
during emergencies as stipulated in the franchise award ordinance. If an override capability is
stipulated in the franchise agreement, the grantee may be required in the franchise agreement
to provide the capability for a squeal alert tone to precede the verbal and/ or video messages. If
a video override capability is provided, the system shall include a character generator for
delivery of emergency messages to the communicatively handicapped.
B. Emergency power sources shall be provided at the headend, network distribution
center, satellite earth station, processing hubs, and other system locations as may be necessary
to guarantee that in the event of a power failure on any part of the system, service will be
maintained on the rest of the system.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 7; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 21) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 32.360 Operation and Service - Subscriber Service
A. It is the right of all subscribers to receive all available services insofar as their
financial and other obligations to the grantee are honored. Neither the City nor the grantee
shall, as to rates, charges, service, service facilities, rules, regulations, or in any other respect,
make or grant any preference or advantage to any person, nor subject any person to prejudice
or disadvantage.
B. Subject to such regulations as may be adopted by the Council, pursuant to this
section, the grantee shall maintain a conveniently located business office and service center
within the grantee' s service area with local toll- free telephone numbers so that subscribers may
report service outages or deficiencies at any time. The office shall maintain an adequate staff
such that subscribers may transact all necessary business, including payment of bills, during
regular business hours. Grantee' s employees shall maintain a high standard of courtesy in
customer relations at all times.
C. Before providing cable communications service to any new subscriber, the
grantee shall provide a written notice to the subscriber substantially as follows:
Subscriber is hereby notified that in providing cable television/ communications
service the grantee is making use of public rights- of-way within the City of Vista and that the
continued use of such rights- of-way is in no way guaranteed. In the event the continued use of
such rights- of-way is denied to grantee for any reason, grantee will make every reasonable
effort to provide service over alternate routes. By accepting cable television/ communications
service, subscriber agrees he will make no claim nor undertake any action against the City, its
officers or its employees if the service to be provided hereunder is interrupted or discontinued.
D. There shall be no charges for service calls to subscriber's residences except
when the problem is due to subscriber overt negligence or willful abuse, or to serve subscriberowned
equipment provided by the grantee.
E. Grantee shall coordinate with the local media to ensure a comprehensive
program guide is available to subscribers. In the event the media does not make such a guide
available, grantee will make a reasonable effort to ensure such a guide is available through
convenient commercial outlets, such as supermarkets.
F. In the event grantee elects to rebuild, upgrade, modify, or sell the system, or the
City revokes or fails to renew the franchise, grantee shall ensure that all subscribers receive
continuous, uninterrupted service in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 8; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.370 Operation and Service Subscribers' Privacy
A. The monitoring of any subscriber terminal, except for the grantee' s monitoring of
signal levels, without specific written authorization of the subscriber is prohibited. Grantee is
responsible for prohibiting, insofar as reasonably possible, the tapping and/ or monitoring of
cable, line, signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose whatsoever.
However, grantee may conduct tests of the functioning of the system where necessary in order
to ensure proper maintenance of the system, to collect performance data for agencies
regulating the quality of the signal and to check for unauthorized reception of service. Where
critical information requires private communication, electronic signal scrambling techniques
must be used.
B. Except as may be authorized by federal and state law, listings of subscribers'
names and addresses may not be sold or otherwise released for any purpose, nor any list which
identifies by name subscriber viewing habits, to any person or agency for any purpose
whatsoever without specific written authorization of the individual subscriber.
5. 32 ( 22) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The grantee and the City shall maintain constant vigilance with regard to possible
abuses of the right of privacy of any subscriber, programmer, or general citizen resulting from
any device or signal associated with the cable communications system. The grantee shall not
place in any private residence any equipment capable of two-way communications without the
written consent of the residents, and will not use the two-way communications capability of the
system for subscriber surveillance of any kind without the written consent of the subscriber.
D. No cable, line, wire amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment owned by
the grantee shall be attached to any residence or other property by the grantee without first
securing the written permission of the owner or responsible occupant of any property involved.
If such permission is later revoked, whether by the original or subsequent owner or responsible
occupant, and unless an agreement with a property owner provides otherwise, the grantee shall
remove forthwith all of its equipment and promptly restore the property to as near its original
condition as possible.
E. No electronic polls or other two-way responses of subscribers shall be conducted
unless the program of which the poll is part contains an explicit disclosure of the nature,
purpose, and prospective use of the results of the poll. No commercial or other use of
information of subscriber viewing habits or patterns may be made and no release of such
information is permitted without prior consent of the Council or pursuant to rules and regulations
duly adopted by the City.
Prior Code 6C- 10. 10; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.380 Rates and Charges - Federal and State Preemption
Except when and as preempted by federal and/ or state laws and regulations, the
procedures set forth in Section 5. 32. 390, as may be modified by the franchise agreement, apply
to the setting of rates and charges associated with the providing of services under this chapter
and any franchise issued under the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 6C- 11. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.390 Rates and Charges - Procedure for Change of Rates and Charges
A. For franchises issued pursuant to Sections 5. 32. 100 through 5. 32. 130 of this
chapter, the grantee shall provide its subscribers and users rates and charges as set forth in the
franchise agreement, and for all franchises issued under these provisions, no change in rates
and charges may be made without the prior approval of the Council expressed by resolution as
an integral part of the franchise agreement. Petitions for changes in rates and charges shall be
reviewed ( processed) and acted upon in accordance with the provisions of this section and will
not be unreasonably denied.
B. Should the grantee desire to change its rates and charges, it shall file a petition
with the Council at least 90 days prior to the proposed date of change. The petition shall detail
the proposed changes and set forth the basis for the requested change(s). The petition shall
include system historical financial data ( balance sheets and detailed profit and loss statements)
in support of the petition for the period since commencement of system operations or the
previous five years, whichever is the lesser.
C. Council determination of proper rates and charges shall be based on factors,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the quality of signal and service delivered to
subscribers, channel capacity, number, and quality of programming sources and the underlying
economics of the system ( system cash flow, grantee return on investment, etc., for the Vista
system and grantee' s total system if other areas besides the city are served by the same
headend/ hub).
5. 32 ( 23) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
D. In connection with any proposed increase in rate or charge, the City may direct
an authorized representative to conduct a hearing on the matter. If so directed, the
representative shall set the day, hour and place certain when and where any person having any
interest therein may appear and be heard. This hearing should normally be conducted within 60
days from date of receipt of petition. The notice of public hearing on the matter should be
published at least ten days before the date of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city.
E. At the time for such hearing, or any adjournment thereof, the representative shall
hear the matter. Following the close of such hearing, the representative shall prepare and file
with the Council a report of the hearing, and his recommendations and the reasons therefore.
After receipt of the representative' s report, the Council shall determine whether to adopt the
report or hold a further hearing. If the Council elects to adopt the recommendations of the
representative, it shall adopt a resolution to do so, describing and stating the proposed change
in rates or charges, fixing and setting forth a day, hour, and place certain when and where any
person having any interest in such matters may appear before the Council and be heard. Such
resolution shall direct the City Manager to publish notice of the resolution' s adoption at least
once within ten days of the passage thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
The City Manager also shall cause notice of intent of such resolution to be mailed to the grantee
at least ten days prior to the date specified for hearing thereon. At the time set for such hearing,
or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear and decide the matter.
Prior Code 6C- 11. 2)
Section 5. 32.400 Rates and Charges - Standards
No rate established shall afford any undue preference or advantage among subscribers,
but separate rates may be established for separate classes of subscribers and installation
charges may reflect the increased cost of providing service to isolated or sparsely populated
areas.
Prior Code 6C- 11. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.410 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Franchise Fee
A. In consideration of the granting and exercise of a franchise to construct and
operate a cable communications system in the city, the grantee shall pay to the City during the
life of the franchise, an annual franchise fee equivalent to a percentage, as stipulated in the
franchise agreement, of the grantee' s gross revenues including, but not limited to, basic service
revenues, nonbasic service revenues, advertising revenues, lease channels revenues, and all
other one-way and interactive service revenues generated in any manner by the grantee, for the
purpose of defraying administrative expenses associated with the conduct and performance of
the city' s authority, responsibilities, and police power in the promotion of safety, convenience,
comfort, prosperity, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, for promotion, development,
operation, and maintenance of cable related matters as the Council may deem appropriate
within the city, and in consideration of the City' s granting and grantee' s exercising a franchise to
use the streets, as defined in Section 5. 32.020. The gross revenues base for such franchise fee
shall not include any taxes on the grantee' s services which are imposed directly on a subscriber
or user by a city, county, state, or other governmental unit, and collected by the grantee for such
entity.
B. The percentage payments shall be made in the manner, amounts, and at times
as directed in the franchise agreement.
C. Each such payment shall be accompanied by a statement, in duplicate, verified
by the grantee or by a general officer or other duly authorized representative of the grantee,
5. 32 ( 24) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
showing in such form and details as the Council may require from time to time the facts material
to a determination of the amount due.
D. The City or its representative shall have the right to inspect the grantee' s records
to determine if proper payments have been made to the City. The costs of such audits shall be
borne by grantee if same results in increasing, by more than two percent, the grantee' s annual
payment to the City.
E. No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as release or as an accord
and satisfaction of any claim the City may have for further or additional sums payable under this
chapter, or the franchise agreement or associated resolution or ordinance, for the performance
of any obligation thereunder.
F. The payment to the City by the grantee pursuant to this section for any calendar
year shall be in lieu of any license fee or business tax, prescribed by the City for the same
period, but only to the extent of such payment.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.420 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Public Liability and
Property Damage Insurance
Grantee shall at all times maintain in full force and effect a policy of insurance in such
form as the City may reasonably require, executed by an insurance company authorized to write
the required insurance and approved by the Insurance Commissioner of the State of California,
insuring the payment of any sums which the grantee or City, its officers, boards, commissioners
and employees, acting in the scope and course of their employment, may become obligated to
pay by reason of any liability imposed upon them by law for damages because of bodily injury or
death, or injury to or destruction of property that may result to any person or property arising out
of the construction, operation or maintenance of any facilities pursuant to a franchise issued
under this chapter. The sums, payment of which shall be so insured, shall not be less than
2, 000,000 combined single limits including bodily injury liability and property damage liability.
Such policy of insurance shall contain a provision that a written notice of cancellation or
reduction in coverage of said policy shall be delivered to the City ten days in advance of the
effective date thereof, if such insurance is provided by a policy which also covers grantee or
another entity or person other than those named above, then such policy shall contain the
standard cross- liability endorsement. A certificate of insurance acceptable to the City shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.430 Compensation and Guarantee to the City Worker's Compensation
Upon being granted a franchise, and upon filing of the acceptance required under
Sections 5. 32. 100 through 5. 32. 130 of this chapter, the grantee shall file with the City Clerk and
shall thereafter, during the entire term of such franchise, maintain in full force and effect
worker's compensation insurance coverage in at least the minimum amounts required by law. If
a grantee fails, after reasonable prior notice and with reasonable notice to cure, to obtain or
maintain such required insurance coverage, the City may, without notice to grantee, obtain, at
grantee' s sole expense, such coverage, or forthwith terminate, without further notice, the
franchise as granted.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 3; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 25) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 32.440 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Faithful Performance
Bond
A. The grantee shall, at his sole expense, at the time of acceptance of a franchise,
file with the City, and unless otherwise authorized by Council, at all times thereafter, maintain in
full force and effect, an acceptable corporate surety bond, in duplicate, in the amount of
100, 000 effective for the entire term of the franchise, and conditioned that in the event the
grantee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the material provisions of a franchise, then
there shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond, any
damages suffered by the City as a result thereof, including the full amount of any compensation,
indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment of property as prescribed by Sections
5. 32.410 or 5. 32. 260 of this chapter which may be in default, up to the full amount of the bond,
said condition to be a continuing obligation for the duration of a franchise and thereafter until the
grantee has liquidated all of its obligations with the City that may have arisen from the
acceptance of a franchise by the grantee or from its exercise of any privilege granted in this
chapter.
B. Neither the provisions of this section, any bond accepted by the City pursuant
thereto, nor any damages recovered by the City thereunder shall be construed to excuse faithful
performance by grantee or to limit liability of the grantee under a franchise or for damages,
either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
C. If, at any time during the term of the franchise, the condition of the corporate
surety shall change in such a manner as to render the bond unsatisfactory to the City, the
grantee shall replace such bond by a bond of like count and similarly conditioned, issued by a
corporate surety satisfactory to the City. In the event the grantee' s obligations under a franchise
shall so warrant, the Council, from time to time, may authorize or require appropriate
adjustments in the amount of the bond. For example, the amount of the bond may be reduced
by grantee, with the prior approval of Council, at satisfactory completion of system construction,
upgrade and/ or extension, as may be set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 4; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.450 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Security Fund
The City may in the franchise agreement require the establishment by grantee of an
insured account as security for the faithful performance by grantee of all the provisions of the
franchise, and compliance with all orders, permits and directions of any agency of the City
having jurisdiction over its acts or defaults under the franchise, and the payment by grantee of
any claims, liens, payments and taxes due the City which arise by reason of the construction,
operation or maintenance of the system. The security fund, if required, is to be as follows:
A. Within 30 days after the effective date of the franchise, grantee shall deposit into
an insured account established by the City, and maintain on deposit throughout the term of the
franchise, an amount of dollars as set forth in the franchise agreement, for the purpose set forth
above. The grantee has the right to earn interest on funds deposited in the security fund.
B. Within 30 days after notice to it that any amount has been withdrawn by the City
from the security fund pursuant to this section, the grantee shall deposit a sum of money
sufficient to restore such security fund to the original amount.
C. If the grantee fails, after ten days notice to pay the City any taxes or payments
due and unpaid; or fails to repay to the City, within such ten days, any damages, costs or
expenses which the City shall be compelled to pay by reasons of any act or default of the
grantee in connection with a franchise; or fail after 30 days notice by the City of such failure to
comply with any provision of the franchise which the City reasonably determines can be
remedied by an expenditure of the security, the City may immediately withdraw the amount
5. 32 ( 26) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the security fund. Upon such withdrawal, the City
shall notify the grantee of the amount and date thereof.
D. The security fund deposited pursuant to this section shall become the property of
the city in the event that a franchise is cancelled by reason of the default of the grantee or
revoked for cause. The grantee, however, shall be entitled to the return of such security fund,
or portion thereof, as remains on deposit at the expiration of the term of the franchise, or upon
termination of the franchise at an earlier date, provided that there is then no outstanding default
on the part of the grantee.
E. The City may, at its sole discretion, upon grantee' s successful completion of
system construction, reduce the security fund to a lesser required amount as set forth in the
franchise agreement, and refund the difference to grantee.
F. The rights reserved to the City with respect to the security fund are in addition to
all other rights of the city whether reserved by a franchise or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding, or exercise of a right with respect to such security fund shall affect any other right
the City may have.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 5; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.460 Compensation and Guarantee to the City - Indemnification to City
A. By accepting a franchise, grantee shall be deemed to have agreed to indemnify
and hold harmless the City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and/ or employees against
and from all claims, demands, causes of actions, suits, proceedings, damages ( including, but
not limited to, damages to City property and damages arising out of copyright infringements,
and damages arising out of any failure by grantee to secure consent from the owners,
authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by grantee' s cable
communications system), costs or liabilities ( including costs of the City with respect to its
employees) of every kind and nature whatsoever, including, but not limited to, damages for
injury or death of person or injury to or destruction of property, and regardless of the merit of
any of the same, and against all liability to others, and against any loss, costs, and expense
resulting or arising out of any of the same, including any reasonable attorney fees, accountant
fees, expert witness or consultant fees, court costs, per diem expense, traveling and
transportation expense, or other costs or expense arising out of or pertaining to grantee' s
operation, construction, and maintenance of a system under any franchise issued, irrespective
of the amount of the bond designated in Section 5. 32.440 of this chapter.
B. The grantee shall at the sole risk and expense of grantee, upon demand of the
City, made by and through the City Attorney, appear in and defend any and all suits, actions or
other legal proceedings, whether judicial, quasi-judicial, administrative, legislative or otherwise,
brought or instituted or had by third persons or duly constituted authorities, against or affecting
the City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, or employees, and arising out of grantee' s
operation, construction, and maintenance of a system under any franchise issued and for which
indemnification is due under Subsection A of this section.
C. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Council, the City may, on behalf of itself,
and/ or any of its officers, boards, commissions, agents, or employees, elect to employ, at
grantee' s expense, attorneys to appear and defend such actions.
D. The grantee shall pay and satisfy and shall cause to be paid and satisfied any
judgment, decree, order, directive or demand rendered, made or issued against grantee, the
City, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, consultants, or employees in any of these
premises and such indemnity shall exist and continue without reference to or limitation by the
amount of any bond, policy of insurance, security deposit, undertaking or other assurance
required hereunder, or otherwise provided, that neither grantee nor City shall make or enter into
any settlement of any claim, demand, cause of action, action, suit, or other proceedings, without
5. 32 ( 27) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
first obtaining the written consent of the other.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 6; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.470 Inspection of Property and Records - Examination of Property
At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized representative of
the City to examine all property of the grantee, together with any appurtenant property of the
grantee situated within or without the City, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and
other records kept or maintained by the grantee or under its control which deal with the
operations, affairs, transactions, or property of the grantee with respect to its franchise. If any
maps or records are not kept in the City, or upon reasonable request made available in the City,
and if the Council determines that an examination thereof is necessary or appropriate, then
travel and maintenance expense necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be paid
by the grantee. Grantee shall not be required to disclose confidential or proprietary information
unless critical to a specific issue in question.
Prior Code 6C- 12. 1; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.480 Inspection of Property and Records - Reports, Records and Plans
A. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the City Manager and the City Clerk at
the times and in the form prescribed by either of said officers, such reports with respect to its
operations, affairs, transactions, or property, as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to
the performance of any of the rights, functions or duties of the City or any of its officers in
connection with the franchise.
B. The grantee shall at all times make and keep in the City full and complete plans
and records showing the exact location of all cable communications system equipment installed
or in use in the streets and other public places in the city. The grantee shall file with the City' s
Director of Public Works, on or before the last day of June of each year, a current map or set of
maps drawn to scale, showing all cable communications system equipment installed and in
place in streets and other public places in the city.
Prior 6C- 13. 2; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.490 Adoption of Rules and Regulations
At any time, the Council may, as necessary, adopt rules, regulations and standards
governing the operation of cable communications systems in the city, consistent with the
provisions of this chapter, and the franchise agreement. Such rules, regulations, and standards
may apply to and govern the operations of the grantee of any cable communications franchise,
and are expressly declared to be a part of any such franchise. Prior to adopting any such rule,
regulation, or standard, the Council shall conduct a duly noticed hearing thereon. At the time
set for such hearing, or at any adjournment thereof, the Council, by resolution, may adopt,
amend, or modify such rules and regulations. The standards adopted may govern engineering,
construction, installation, service, technical performance, maintenance, and performance testing
of all cable communications systems in the city. Such rules, regulations, and standards shall
not unreasonably interfere or conflict with the existing rights of the grantee under its franchise,
unless deemed by the City as necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health,
safety, or welfare.
Prior Code 6C- 14; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 28) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 32.500 Amendment of this Chapter and the Franchise
The Council shall amend this chapter and any franchise issued under its provisions,
upon its own motion or the application of a grantee whenever amendment is necessary to
enable grantee to utilize new developments in cable communications, television or radio signal
transmission which would improve and update cable communications service in the city, or to
comply with any modifications in the rules of the FCC. Amendments to Section 76. 31 of the
FCC Rules will be incorporated into this chapter within one year of their adoption or at the time
of franchise renewal, whichever comes first. No amendment shall be adopted except after full
open public hearing afforded due process, and no amendment substantially amending the
existing rights and obligations of the grantee shall be adopted without grantee' s consent.
Prior Code 6C- 15; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.510 Notices
Every direction, notice, or order to be served upon a grantee shall be hand- delivered or
sent by certified mail to the local office described in Section 5. 32.360 of this chapter. Every
notice to be served upon the City shall be hand- delivered, or sent by certified mail, to the City
Clerk at City Hall. The delivery of such shall be deemed to have been at time of receipt.
Prior Code 6C- 19; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.520 Violations
A. Unlawful Operation. It is unlawful for any person to construct, install or maintain
within any public right-of-way in the city, or within any other public property of the city, or within
any privately owned area within the city which has not yet become a public right- of-way, but is
designated as proposed right-of-way on any tentative subdivision map approved by the City,
equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals or radio signals through a cable
communications system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of such street or property or
area has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and unless such
franchise is in full force and effect.
B. Unlawful Connections. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make
or use any unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or
otherwise with any part of any cable communications system within the boundaries of the city
for the purpose of enabling himself/herself or others to receive or use any television signal, radio
signal, picture, program, sound, information, or other system service without payment to the
owner of said system.
C. Unlawful Tampering. It is unlawful for any person, without the consent of the
grantee, to willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for
distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sound, information, data, or
other system device.
Prior Code 6C- 16; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
Section 5. 32.530 Fines and Penalties
The City may levy fines and other penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and the franchise agreement, not to exceed those limits set forth in the franchise
agreement.
Prior Code 6C- 17; Ord. No. 87- 30, Amended 8/ 24/ 87)
5. 32 ( 29) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 36
Cesspool Cleaners
Sections:
5.36.010 Definitions
5.36.020 Health Permit Fee
5.36.030 Inspection of Equipment
5.36.040 Reports Required
Section 5.36.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Cesspools, Septic Tanks and Seepage Pits" mean and include all manner of sewage
disposal other than regular sewage disposal plants and systems operated by a political
subdivision and holding a valid permit from the State Department of Public Health.
Health Officer" means the Health Officer or any sanitary inspector regularly employed
by the City.
Prior Code 25- 5; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 36.020 Health Permit Fee
Every person applying for a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall at the time of
making an application for such permit pay a fee the exact amount of which shall be determined by
the County of San Diego and kept on record by the County Department of Health Services and
filed in the City Clerk' s Office.
Prior Code 25- 6; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 87- 34, Repealed and Replaced 10/ 12/ 87)
Section 5. 36.030 Inspection of Equipment
The Health Officer shall examine all equipment used in processing septic tanks, cesspools
and seepage pits owned or under the control of each person registered under the provisions of
this article at regular intervals not to exceed 90 days after such permit is granted.
Prior Code 25- 9; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5.36.040 Reports Required
A. Whenever a person cleans a septic tank or cesspool, he shall notify the Health
Officer or his duly authorized representative upon the regulation form adopted by the Board of
Health.
B. Such form shall contain information such as location of septic tanks, cesspools and
seepage pits, location of the disposal field where sewage effluent or other material has been
finally disposed of or any other information which the Board of Health by regulation may
require.
C. Such report shall be transmitted to the Department of Public Health at the close
of each day.
Prior Code 25- 10; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 36 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.40
Fortunetelling
Sections:
5. 40. 010 Fortunetelling
Section 5. 40.010 Fortunetelling
No person shall engage in, conduct, advertise or carry on the occupation or business of
fortunetelling, as defined in Section 18. 02. 310 of this code, without complying with the
provisions of Chapter 5. 04 of this code.
Prior Code 19- 4; Ord. No. 86- 20, Repealed and Replaced 4/ 22/ 86)
5. 40 ( l) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.44
Gasoline Price Advertising
Sections:
5.44.010 Required Price Advertising
5.44.020 Sale of Gasoline by Liters
5.44.030 Consistency with Business and Professions Code
5.44.040 Conformance with Sign Regulations
Section 5.44.010 Required Price Advertising
A. Every person, firm, partnership, association or corporation which owns, operates,
manages, leases or rents a gasoline service station or other facility offering for sale, selling or
otherwise dispensing gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public from such a facility abutting
or adjacent to a street or highway shall post or cause to be posted or displayed and maintained at
said premises at least one sign, banner or other advertising medium which is clearly visible from
all lanes of traffic in each direction on such street and highway. Each such sign, banner or other
such advertising medium shall be readable from the traffic lanes and shall indicate thereon the
actual price per gallon or liter, including all taxes, at which each grade of gasoline or other motor
vehicle fuel is currently being offered for sale, sold or otherwise dispensed, if at all, at such facility
on such date.
B. No person, firm, partnership, association, trustee or corporation which owns,
operates, manages, leases or rents a gasoline service station or other facility offering for sale,
selling or otherwise dispensing gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public shall advertise,
either in conjunction with any sign, banner or other advertising medium utilized to satisfy the
requirements of this section or otherwise, the price of any grade of gasoline or other motor vehicle
fuel which is not immediately available to be sold or dispensed to the public at such premises.
Prior Code 19- 33; Ord. No. 80- 19, Amended 5/ 7/ 80)
Section 5.44.020 Sale of Gasoline by Liters
Each sign required by Section 5.44.010 shall advertise the price of gasoline per liter only if
such information is clearly designated on such sign and only if gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel
is actually being sold by the liter.
Prior Code 19- 34; Ord. No. 80- 19, Amended 5/ 7/ 80)
Section 5.44.030 Consistency with Business and Professions Code
Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted or displayed or maintained pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter shall be consistent with the provisions of Article 12, Chapter
14, Division 5, Sections 13530, et seq., of the Business and Professions Code.
Prior Code 19- 35; Ord. No. 80- 19, Amended 5/ 7/ 80; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 5.44.040 Conformance with Sign Regulations
Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted, displayed or maintained pursuant to
the requirements of this chapter shall be subject to the regulations imposed by Chapters 8. 52 and
8. 62.
Prior Code 19- 36; Ord. No. 80- 19, Amended 5/ 7/ 80)
5. 44 ( l) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.48
Hotels, Roominghouses and Similar Establishments
Sections:
5. 48. 010 County Code Provisions Adopted by Reference
5. 48. 020 Rental of Room to Minor - Police Notification
5. 48. 030 Guest Registration - Required
5. 48. 040 Guest Registration - Maintenance of Record - Inspection
5. 48. 050 Guest Registration - Time of Departure
5. 48. 060 Registration of Guest Vehicles
Section 5. 48.010 County Code Provisions Adopted by Reference
Sections 66. 1001 and 66. 1005 of the San Diego County Code relating to permits for
apartment houses and hotels as adopted by San Diego County Ordinance No. 4623 ( New
Series) are adopted by reference pursuant to the authority therefore in Sections 50022. 1
through 50022. 10, inclusive, of the Government Code, and all provisions thereof are referred
to, adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set forth fully in this section.
Prior Code 14- 2. 3; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 88- 2, Amended 2/ 8/ 88)
Section 5. 48.020 Rental of Room to Minor - Police Notification
Any person, whether owner, employee, agent or manager of any hotel, motor court or
trailer court in the city, who rents or lets any room or rooms, or any trailer or trailers to be used
on the premises and not removed there from or allows any such room or rooms, or trailers, to
be occupied by any minor of less than 17 years of age, unless such minor is accompanied by
his or her parent, parents or legal guardian, shall immediately by telephone, and within 24
hours by written and signed report, notify the Police Department of such occurrence.
Prior Code 14A- 1; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 48.030 Guest Registration - Required
No manager or other person in control of any inn, hotel, apartment house,
roominghouse, lodginghouse, auto court or trailer park in the city shall let or assign for
temporary or transient occupancy any suite, room or bed in any part thereof to any person until
such person has registered his name and address in the register required to be kept by
Section 5. 48. 040, and until such register has been made to show correctly the year, month,
day and hour of the arrival of such person thereat, and the number of the suite or room let and
assigned to such guest or guests.
Prior Code 14A-2; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5.48.040 Guest Registration - Maintenance of Record - Inspection
Every manager or person in control of any inn, hotel, apartment house, roominghouse,
lodginghouse, auto court or trailer park in the city shall keep at all times a register for the
registration of transient guests. Such registration of guests shall be preserved for at least three
years, and every such register shall at all times be subject to inspection by every law
enforcement officer of the City.
Prior Code 14A-3; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 48 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5.48.050 Guest Registration - Time of Departure
The manager or person in control of such inn, hotel, apartment house, roominghouse,
lodginghouse, auto court or trailer park shall, at the time of the departure of each guest, if such
time is known, enter upon such register the date and time of departure; or if the exact time of
departure is not known, the date and time that the fact of the departure of each guest is
ascertained, and shall not erase or alter, or suffer or permit to be erased or altered, any of such
entries in such register.
Prior Code 14A-4; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5.48.060 Registration of Guest Vehicles
Every manager or person in control of any auto court or trailer park in the city shall, in
addition to other requirements of this chapter, enter the make, type, license number and name
of issuing state of any motor vehicle or vehicles in the immediate possession of such guest or
guests, if such there be, in the register provided to be kept by Section 5. 48. 040.
Prior Code 14A-5; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 48 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.52
Ice Cream Vendors
Sections:
5. 52.010 Definitions
5. 52.020 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle Permit Required
5. 52.030 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle PermitApplication Unauthorized
5. 52.040 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle Permit Issuance and Denial
5. 52.050 Operator Permit Required
5. 52.060 Operator Permit Application
5. 52.070 Operator Permit Issuance or Denial Term
5. 52.080 Vending Restrictions
5. 52.090 Unauthorized Riders Prohibited
5. 52. 100 Vehicle Condition
5. 52. 110 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
5. 52. 120 Appeal of Action on Permit
Section 5. 52.010 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A. " Ice Cream Truck" means every motor vehicle, as that term is defined in
Section 415 of the California Vehicle Code, in which ice cream, ice milk, frozen dairy products,
candy in the original packaging of the manufacturer or ice flavored with syrup are carried for
purposes of retail sale on the streets of this city.
B. " Vend" or "Vending" means offer( ing) ice cream, ice milk, frozen dairy products
or ice flavored with syrup, candy in the original packaging of the manufacturer for sale from a
motor vehicle on the streets of this city. No products other than those listed in Subsection A
may be sold on these vehicles.
C. " Offering" does not include merely driving on a street with identification or other
markings on the ice cream truck.
D. " Litter" means trash or refuse consisting of materials at one time dispensed from
the ice cream truck, and any residue deposited on the street from the operation thereof.
Prior Code 12- 15; Ord. No. 88- 2, Added 2/ 8/ 88; Ord. No. 91- 22, Amended, 08/ 13/ 91; Ord. No. 2015- 1,
Amended, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.020 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle Permit Required
A. No ice cream truck may be used to vend in the City of Vista without an Ice Cream
Vehicle Vending Permit ( hereinafter, " Permit") as described in this section. Vehicle must be
inspected by the San Diego County Health Department, the Sheriff's Department, and City
Code Enforcement to ensure compliance to the regulations of this article.
B. The ice cream truck must have its outside music control marked for noise level
by the San Diego County Noise Control Officer, so as to indicate conformance with the
regulatory provision 5. 52. 030. G. 1.
C. All vehicles operating in accordance with this article shall be licensed by the
California Department of Motor Vehicles and shall comply with all requirements of the California
Vehicle Code.
D. All drivers of said vehicles shall be licensed by the California Department of
Motor Vehicles.
5. 52 ( 1) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
E. A City of Vista Vehicle Identification Sticker ( V. I. S.), issued with the permit, is
required to be displayed on each vehicle conducting business. The V. I. S. must be displayed on,
and attached to the lower right corner of the windshield of the vehicle.
F. Copies of City of Vista business license, ice cream vehicle vending permit,
County of San Diego Health Permit, labor work Permits, and vehicle registration, must be
maintained in vehicles in use at all times. Said permits and licenses must be produced for
inspection upon request by any City of Vista Code Enforcement Officer or County of San Diego
Sheriff's personnel.
G. Application for the permit shall be made to the Code Enforcement Division and
shall require proof of a valid County Health Department Permit, proof of a valid business license
to operate in the city, and a safety inspection certificate issued by the Sheriff's Department.
Each application shall also be accompanied by a fee, established by City Council resolution,
sufficient to cover the administrative cost, which fee shall be exclusive of any amount due for
the business license or the operators permit background check.
H. Each permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire on June
30, regardless of date of issuance, unless prior thereto revoked by the City. The renewal of the
permit shall comply with all of the requirements as stated within this section, including payment
of the fee described under Section 5. 52. 030. C.
Prior Code 12- 18; Ord. No. 88- 2, Added 2/ 8/ 88; Ord. No. 91- 22, Amended, 08/ 13/ 91; Ord. No. 2010- 9,
Amended, 5/ 11/ 10; Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.030 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle PermitApplication
A. An application for an ice cream vending vehicle permit shall be filed with the
Code Enforcement Manager and shall contain the following:
1. The individual and business name, address, and telephone number of the
permit applicant which shall be the person or entity operating the business from the ice cream
vending vehicle, including all other names used by the applicant.
2. Written evidence that the applicant is an owner, lessee or holder of a
similar interest in the ice cream vending vehicle.
3. The name and address of all legal and registered owner(s) of the ice
cream vending vehicle, and each person with a financial interest in the business that operates
the ice cream vending vehicle.
4. A copy of a valid business license issued pursuant to Chapter 5.04 of this
Code.
5. The state vehicle license plate number and the vehicle identification
number of the ice cream vending vehicle.
6. Proof of compliance with the automobile liability insurance requirements
in the minimum amounts set by state law.
7. Proof that the vehicle is in compliance with applicable requirements of the
State of California and the County of San Diego regarding the operation of an ice cream
vending vehicle.
8. The address where the ice cream vending vehicle is stored and restocked
when not in use.
9. A description of the goods and merchandise which will be sold or
distributed from the ice cream vending vehicle.
10. A listing of each conviction of a felony or misdemeanor violation or entry
of a plea of nolo contendere, with respect to the applicant, or any party operating an ice cream
vending vehicle owned by applicant: ( a) for violating this Chapter; ( b) for actions occurring while
operating an ice cream vending vehicle; or ( c) for a conviction or plea described in Section
5. 52. 040. B. 10. The list shall, for each such conviction, set forth the date of arrest, the offense
5. 52 ( 2) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
charged, and the offense of which the person was convicted. During the period covered by a
permit, the Code Enforcement Manager: ( 1) shall be apprised of the preceding information with
respect to any new convictions or pleas of nolo contendre. The applicant will provide consent
and sufficient personal identifying information to enable a review to determine if the applicant or
operator has a conviction or have entered a plea of nolo contendere in any of the preceding
categories.
11. Whether a permit in connection with an ice cream vending vehicle or its
operation, sought by the applicant has been denied or revoked by the City or any other
jurisdiction or governmental unit in the United States in the three year period prior to the
application. If so, the circumstances and facts upon which that denial or revocation was based.
12. If the applicant will be the operator of the ice cream vending vehicle,
evidence of a current California driver's license for operation of the ice cream vending vehicle.
13. Such other information as may be required by the Code Enforcement
Manager to further the purpose of this Chapter.
B. If the applicant intends to be the operator of the vehicle and has provided the
information required by paragraph 12, the Code Enforcement Manager shall process the
application as a request for a combined ice cream vending vehicle and operator permit. The
holder of such a permit, for purposes of this Code, shall be deemed to hold both an ice cream
vending vehicle permit and an operator permit.
C. Every application for an ice cream vending vehicle permit shall be accompanied
by a nonproratable, nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by resolution of the
City Council.
D. Upon receipt of a complete application and the required application fee, the Code
Enforcement Manager shall physically inspect the ice cream vending vehicle to ensure
compliance with this Code, state law, and the Vehicle Code equipment requirements; provided,
however, that the Code Enforcement Manager, in his or her discretion, may accept proof of
compliance with California or San Diego County inspection requirements for operating an ice
cream vending vehicle in lieu of conducting an inspection.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.040 Ice Cream Vending Vehicle Permit Issuance and Denial
A. Except as provided in subsection B, an ice cream vending vehicle permit or an
ice cream vending vehicle and operator permit, as applicable, shall be issued by the Code
Enforcement Manager upon receipt of a complete application and payment of the permit fee, as
specified in Section 8. 24.030 of this Chapter.
B. An ice cream vending vehicle permit, or an ice cream vending vehicle and
operator permit, as applicable, may be denied by the Code Enforcement Manager if he or she
finds any of the following grounds:
1. The information submitted pursuant to Section 5. 52.030 of this Chapter is
materially false or incomplete.
2. The applicant or any person with a financial interest in the business that
operates the ice cream vending vehicle, has any unpaid administrative penalties imposed
pursuant to Chapter 1. 13 of this Code.
3. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant, any registered
owner of the ice cream vending vehicle, or any person with a financial interest in the business
that operates the ice cream vending vehicle, has had his or her ice cream vending vehicle
permit revoked.
4. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant, any registered
owner of the ice cream vending vehicle, or any person with a financial interest in the business
has violated the requirements of this Chapter or those of State or other laws with respect to an
ice cream vending vehicle or being an operator of an ice cream vending vehicle.
5. 52 ( 3) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
5. The applicant has not paid the applicable business license tax pursuant to
Chapter 5. 04 of this Code.
6. The ice cream vending vehicle does not have the inspection permits
required by the County of San Diego or the Code Enforcement Manager, following his or her
physical inspection of the ice cream vending vehicle, determines that the vehicle fails to satisfy
the legal requirements for the lawful operation of the vehicle in the State or County.
7. The business location and vehicle storage location, if within the city, does
not comply with applicable zoning regulations and other codes.
8. The applicant or a party operating an ice cream vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere: ( a) for violating this
Chapter or for actions occurring while operating an ice cream vending vehicle; and ( b) the
conviction or entry of plea occurred within 12 months prior to the submission of the application.
9. The applicant has applied for an ice cream vending vehicle and operator
permit, but does not have a current California driver's license for operation of the ice cream
vending vehicle.
10. The applicant or a party operating an ice cream vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere for any of the
following:
a. unlawful sexual conduct or physical violence
b. felonies involving the sale or distribution of drugs within the last
ten years;
c. misdemeanors involving the sale or distribution of drugs within the
last five years.
C. All ice cream vending vehicle permits shall expire on June 30 of the calendar
year following the date of issuance unless sooner revoked, except that a permit initially issued
between April 1 and June 29 may operate through the second June 30 following issuance in
accordance with an administrative practice or policy approved by the City Manager.
D. Applications for renewal shall be filed between April 1 and April 30 of each year
prior to expiration of a permit.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.050 Operator Permit Required
A. It is unlawful for any person to be an operator of an ice cream vending vehicle
unless the person holds a valid and effective operator permit or an ice cream vending vehicle
and operator permit issued pursuant to this Chapter.
B. Every permittee, upon receipt of an operator permit, shall maintain the permit in
the ice cream vending vehicle where the person acts as operator.
C. Upon demand of a peace officer or City employee authorized to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter, a person who is an operator of an ice cream vending vehicle shall
present the operator permit that is in effect for the operator.
D. All operator permits are the property of the City and each shall only authorize the
person holding the permit to be an operator of an ice cream vending vehicle. It is unlawful for
any person to sell or transfer, or attempt to sell or transfer, any operator permit.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.060 Operator Permit Application
A. An application for an operator permit shall be filed with the Code Enforcement
Manager and shall contain the following:
1. The name, address, and telephone number of the permit applicant,
including all other names used by the applicant.
5. 52 ( 4) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Unless the applicant certifies that he or she will never drive an ice cream
vending vehicle, evidence of a current California driver's license for operation of the ice cream
vending vehicle.
3. A listing of each conviction of a felony or misdemeanor violation or entry
of a plea of nolo contendere, in the preceding 10 years with respect to the applicant, or any
party operating an ice cream vending vehicle owned by applicant: ( a) for violating this Chapter;
b) for actions occurring while operating an ice cream vending vehicle or ( c) for a conviction or
plea described in Section 5. 52. 040. B. 10. The list shall, for each such conviction, set forth the
date of arrest, the offense charged, and the offense of which the person was convicted. During
the period covered by a permit, the Code Enforcement Manager: ( 1) shall be apprised of the
preceding information with respect to any new convictions or pleas of nolo contender.
4. Whether the applicant has ever been denied a permit in connection with
an ice cream vending vehicle or its operation by the City or any other jurisdiction or
governmental unit in the United States in the three year period prior to the application. If so, the
circumstances and facts upon which that denial or revocation was based.
5. Such other information as may be required by the Code Enforcement
Manager to further the purpose of this Chapter.
B. Every application for an operator permit shall be accompanied by a
nonproratable, nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
C. Each applicant for an operator permit must complete an application, as provided
by the City, for a full background check. The application shall be accompanied by a
nonproratable, nonrefundable background check fee in an amount established by resolution of
the City Council.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.070 Operator Permit Issuance or Denial  Term
A. Except as provided in subsection B of this section, an operator permit shall be
issued by the Code Enforcement Manager upon receipt of a complete application and payment
of the permit fee, as specified in Section 5. 52.040.
B. An operator permit may be denied by the Code Enforcement Manager if he or
she finds any of the following grounds:
1. The information submitted pursuant to Section 5. 52.060 of this Chapter is
materially false or incomplete.
2. The applicant has any unpaid administrative penalties imposed pursuant
to Chapter 1. 13 of this Code.
3. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant has had his or
her ice cream vending vehicle permit or operator permit revoked.
4. The applicant has not paid the applicable business license tax pursuant to
Chapter 5. 04 of this Code.
5. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant has violated the
requirements of this Chapter or those of state or other laws with respect to an ice cream
vending vehicle or being an operator of an ice cream vending vehicle.
6. The applicant or a party operating an ice cream vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere: (a) for violating this
Chapter or for actions occurring while operating an ice cream vending vehicle; and ( b) the
conviction or entry of plea occurred within 12 months prior to the submission of the application.
7. The applicant or a party operating an ice cream vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere for any of the
offenses described in Section 5. 52. 030.A. 10.
5. 52 ( 5) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
C. All operator permits shall expire on June 30 of the calendar year following the
date of issuance unless sooner revoked, except that a permit initially issued between April 1 and
June 29 may operate through the second June 30 following issuance in accordance with an
administrative practice or policy approved by the City Manager.
D. Applications for renewal shall be filed between April 1 and April 30 of each year
prior to expiration of a permit.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52.080 Vending Restrictions
A. No person shall vend on any street of this city where the posted legal speed limit
exceeds 25 miles per hour.
B. No person shall vend before 10: 00 a. m. or after one- half hour after sundown, not
to exceed 8: 00 p. m. during daylight savings time.
C. No person shall vend within 500 feet of any property used as a school during the
period beginning one hour before classes commence that day until one hour after the classes
end that day.
D. No person shall vend unless the ice cream truck is lawfully stopped and parked.
E. No person shall vend to any person unless the vendee is away from the side of
the ice cream truck where traffic would normally pass.
F. No person shall vend to any person standing on the street or roadway of this city.
G. Sound amplification restrictions.
1. Sound amplification, if used, shall be restricted to the playing of non-vocal
music and may not exceed 60 decibels at the distance of ten feet from the source. Sound
amplification is determined to be in non- compliance if its music volume control is set beyond the
pre-measured mark. The mark is determined as the threshold point for the level of sound
allowed under the permit process, as set forth in Section 5. 52. 020.
2. No ice cream truck with its amplifying device in operation shall be driven
on the same street past the same point more than twice in one hour.
3. Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the ice cream
truck upon which such equipment mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten miles per hour,
except when said vehicle is stopped or impeded by traffic. Where, stopped by traffic, the said
sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated for longer than one minute at each stop.
Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated when the vehicle is parked.
4. Sound shall not be issued within 300 feet of hospitals, schools, churches,
or courthouses.
H. No ice cream truck may enter onto any private property, private easement, or
other restricted area without the oral or written permission of the property owner or other person
in control of the property.
I. The operator of the ice cream truck shall pick up, remove and dispose of all litter,
and shall otherwise maintain in a clean and debris- free condition the entire area within a 25-foot
radius of the location where vending is occurring.
J. No person shall store or park an ice cream truck on any public or private street or
alley or public or private property within any residential district. For the purpose of this section,
residential district" shall mean any area within the city which is zoned R- 1, R- 1- B, R- M, PRO
Planned Residential Development), and those portions of planned community zones and
specific plan districts which are specified for residential uses.
K. Vending from ice cream trucks shall be limited to only the following products: ice
cream, ice milk, gelato, frozen dairy products, ice flavored with syrup, and candy in the original
packaging of the manufacturer.
Prior Code 12- 16; Ord. No. 88- 2, Added 2/ 8/ 88; Ord. No. 91- 22, Amended, 08/ 13/ 91; Ord. No. 2004- 9,
Amended, 09/ 28/ 04; Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended, 1/ 13/ 15)
5. 52 ( 6) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 52.090 Unauthorized Riders Prohibited
A. The driver of an ice cream truck shall not permit any unauthorized person to ride
in or on the vehicle. A person is authorized if lawfully employed by the ice cream truck's owner,
meeting all state and federal labor statutes.
B. A maximum of two authorized persons, including the driver of the ice cream
truck, are allowed in the truck at any one time.
Prior Code 12- 17; Ord. No. 88- 2, Added 2/ 8/ 88; Ord. No. 91- 22, Amended, 08/ 13/ 91; Ord. No. 2015- 1,
Amended, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52. 100 Vehicle Condition
A. All vehicles operating in accordance with this article shall have an outside,
passenger side mirror that provides visibility to the right side and to the rear of the vehicle.
B. All vehicles operating in accordance with this article shall have the words,
CAUTION CHILDREN IN AREA," printed on the rear of the vehicles, in letters of not less than
five inches in height.
C. Each ice cream truck must be inspected by the Sheriffs Department to receive a
safety inspection certificate. As a condition to having a certificate issued and as a condition to
retaining such certificate, each truck shall at all times have:
1. Headlights properly functioning and adjusted.
2. Brake lights properly functioning.
3. Left and right turn indicators properly functioning.
4. Parking brake properly adjusted and functioning.
5. Tail lights properly functioning.
6. Seat belts properly installed and available for each passenger.
7. Tires that have tread to meet state requirements, and safely operating.
8. Steering mechanism properly adjusted and safely operating.
9. Any equipment required by statute or ordinance, which equipment shall
be maintained in good working order.
D. The interior and the exterior of each ice cream truck, and all equipment therein
shall be maintained in good repair, and in a clean and sanitary manner at all times when in
operation.
Ord. No. 91- 22, Enacted, 08/ 13/ 91; Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52. 110 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
A. The Code Enforcement Manager may suspend or revoke any ice cream vending
vehicle permit or operator permit issued hereunder on the basis of any of the following grounds:
1. The Code Enforcement Manager determines that any activity authorized
by the permit is being carried out in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance, or to be injurious
to the public health, safety or welfare; or
2. The operation of the ice cream vending vehicle is in violation of any
conditions imposed upon the permit or in violation of any provision of this Chapter, this Code,
the San Diego County Code or state law.
3. There exist grounds that would have justified denial of the permit
application had those grounds been known, or had they been true, on the date of the
application.
B. Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no permit shall be suspended
or revoked until a hearing is held by the Code Enforcement Manger. Written notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be given at least five days prior to the date set for such hearing
5. 52 ( 7) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
to the person to whom the permit was granted and to any other person who, at least ten days
prior to the hearing, requests such notice. Such notice shall contain a brief statement of the
grounds to be relied upon for revoking or suspending such permit. Notice may be given either
by personal delivery to the persons to be notified, or by depositing the notice in the U. S. mail in
a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the persons to be notified at the address
appearing in the application for a permit.
C. Upon the Code Enforcement Manager's suspension or revocation of any permit
pursuant to this section, written notice of that suspension or revocation shall be provided to the
permittee in the manner described in paragraph B setting forth the grounds for revocation or
suspension. Within ten days of such notice, the permittee shall surrender the subject permit to
the City.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
Section 5. 52. 120 Appeal of Action on Permit
A. An applicant or permittee, as applicable, may appeal the Code Enforcement
Manager' s decision to deny an application, to suspend a permit, or to revoke a permit pursuant
to this Chapter in the manner provided below.
B. A notice of appeal, accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount set by resolution
of the City Council, must be filed within ten days after the date of the Code Enforcement
Manager's decision.
C. Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the City Manager or his or her designated
representative shall hear such appeal within 20 calendar days following the date of such appeal
and shall give the appellant not less than five calendar days advanced notice of the date of such
hearing. The decision of the City Manager shall be based upon the same criteria as set forth in
this Chapter which are applicable to the issuance or revocation of such permit. The appellant
shall be notified of the decision of the City Manager by mailed, written notice. The decision of
the City Manager shall be final. No revocation of a permit pursuant to this Chapter shall be
deemed effective during the pendency of a timely filed appeal until the date of mailing of the City
Manager's decision.
Ord. No. 2015- 1, Amended to Add, 1/ 13/ 15)
5. 52 ( 8) Vista 2/ 13/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.56
Massage Establishments and Massage Therapists
Sections:
5.56.010 Title
5.56.020 Purpose and Intent
5.56.030 Definitions
5.56.040 Massage Establishment Permit Required; Exemptions
5.56.050 Application for Massage Establishment Permit
5.56.060 Massage Establishment Permit Denial and Appeal
5.56.070 Massage Establishment Operating Requirements
5.56.080 Massage Establishment Facility Requirements
5.56.090 Seated Massage
5.56. 100 Off-Premises Massage
5.56. 110 Massage Establishment Inspections
5.56. 120 Massage Establishment Permit Not Assignable
5.56. 130 Change of Location or Name; Separate Location
5.56. 140 Business License Requirements Not Waived
5.56. 150 Massage Therapist Regulations
5.56. 160 Notice of Changes
5.56. 170 Advertisement
5.56. 180 Revocation of Massage Establishment Permits
5.56. 190 Procedure for Appeal of Denial or Revocation of Certificate of Compliance
5.56.200 Violation and Penalty
5.56.210 Enforcement
Section 5.56.010 Title
This Chapter shall be known as the "Massage Establishment Ordinance."
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09; Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.020 Purpose and Intent
A. It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to provide for the orderly regulation of
the business of massage in the City of Vista to protect the public health, safety and welfare by
promulgating minimum standards for the establishment and operation of those businesses.
B. It is the intent of the City Council that, unless otherwise indicated in this Chapter,
all requirements, restrictions, and provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all massage
establishments and their operations.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 76-25, Amended 6/ 28/76; Ord. No. 77- 28,
Amended 6/ 23/77; Ord. No. 88- 39, Amended 10/ 10/ 88; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07;
Ord. No. 2009- 24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.030 Definitions
City" shall mean the City of Vista.
Massage Establishment Permit" shall mean a certificate issued by the Director of
Economic Development, upon submission of satisfactory evidence that a massage establishment
which requires a permit pursuant to Section 5. 56. 040 has satisfied each of the requisites for
issuance of that permit pursuant to this Chapter.
5. 56 ( l) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
CAMTC" shall mean the California Massage Therapy Council created pursuant to
Section 4602 of the Business and Professions Code.
Day Spa" shall mean an establishment which offers a range of beauty or skin care
services and beauty or skin care products for resale in addition to massage services, but whose
annual gross revenue from massage services does not exceed 50% of the total annual gross
revenue of the business. For the purposes of determining annual gross revenue, the total gross
revenue from each massage therapist performing services at the day spa shall be added to the
annual gross revenue of the day spa regardless of whether the massage therapists are
employees or independent contractors.
Exempt Massage Professional" shall mean a person within a profession described in
subparagraphs 1, 2, 7 or 8 of paragraph ( B) of Section 5. 56. 040, but only while providing an offpremise
massage as a legitimate function of that person' s profession.
Director of Economic Development" shall mean the Director of Economic
Development for the City of Vista, or the designee of the Director of Economic Development.
Independent Contractor" shall mean any massage therapist, other than an exempt
massage professional, who offers to provide or does provide massage in the City and the
massage therapist is: ( 1) not listed as an employee on a massage establishment's employee and
contractor list; or ( 2) is providing off-premise massage and, at that time, is not operating as an
employee of a massage establishment.
Massage" shall mean any method of treating the external parts of the body for remedial,
health, or hygienic purposes by means of pressure on or friction against; or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding; or stimulating the external parts of the body with the hands or other
parts of the body, with or without the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliances;
or with or without supplementary aids, such as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powders, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used in this practice
and shall include herbal body wraps.
Massage Establishment" shall mean any fixed place of business, whether operated by
a business, corporation, partnership, person, organization, or sole proprietorship, where any
person engages in, conducts, or carries on, or permits to be engaged in, conducted, or carried
on, any business of giving massage, administration of fomentation, electric or magnetic
treatments, alcohol rubs, or any other type of system for treatment or manipulation of the human
body.
Massage Establishment Permit" shall mean a regulatory permit issued by the City of
Vista pursuant to this Chapter to operate a massage establishment or to operate an off-premises
massage business.
Massage Establishment Employee and Contractor List" shall mean the list of every
employee and independent contractor providing massage services at a massage establishment
or on behalf of an off-premises massage business which is prepared, maintained, updated, and
includes the information required by Section 5. 56.70. C.
Massage Therapist" shall mean any person who administers to another person, for any
form of consideration, a massage.
Off-Premises Massage" shall mean a massage: ( 1) provided at a location which does
not qualify as a massage establishment; provided that (2) consideration is provided in exchange
for the massage which may be provided to the therapist, the therapist' s employer, or any person
acting as an agent, finder or intermediary for the therapist. An off-premise massage does not
include a massage provided by a professional described in paragraph ( B) of Section 5. 56.040 if
provided at the locations and in the manner specified in that paragraph.
Off-Premise Massage Business" means any: ( 1) business which provides any offpremise
massage in the City, (2) sole proprietorship which provides any off-premise massage in
the City, or ( 3) person who provides any off-premise massage in the City while acting as an
independent contractor, except a massage therapist shall not be classified as an off-premise
5. 56 ( 2) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
massage business if the massage therapist is listed on a massage establishment employee and
contractor list submitted to the City by the owners or operators of a massage establishment or an
off-premises massage business holding a current and valid massage establishment permit.
Operator" shall include any person or persons who supervises, manages, directs,
organizes, controls or in any other way is responsible for or in charge of the operation, conduct,
or activities of a massage establishment, an off premises massage business, or massage
therapist who is on or should be on the massage establishment employee and contractor list for
the massage establishment or off-premises massage business. Evidence of management or
control includes, either alone or in combination, but is not limited to, evidence that the individual
has power to direct or hire and dismiss employees, control hours of operation, control access to
premises ( e. g., possession of keys to site), create policy or rules, cause publication of
advertisements for business, or purchase supplies. Any person with a current and valid State
Therapist Certificate, when present at a massage establishment or at a location where the
therapist is providing or is scheduled to provide an off-premises massage, shall be deemed to be
in charge or control of, and an operator of a massage establishment or off-premises massage
business. An operator also includes an owner.
Owner" shall mean and include any of the following persons:
1. The individual( s) whose name appears on the City of Vista Business
License for a massage establishment or off-premises massage business or on a Massage
establishment permit.
2. The sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship operating a massage
establishment or an off-premises massage business.
3. Any general partner of a general or limited partnership that owns a
massage establishment or an off-premises massage business.
4. Any person who owns at least ten percent of the share of a corporation that
is an owner of a massage establishment or an off-premises massage business, unless that
corporation is traded on a national stock exchange.
5. Any person who is a member of a limited liability company that owns a
massage establishment or off-premises massage business.
6. Each owner of any type of business association that owns a massage
establishment or off-premises massage business with an interest of ten percent or more.
Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association or other group
or combination of individuals acting as an entity.
Person Who has Engaged in Disqualifying Conduct" shall mean a person who:
A. Within ten years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application in
question or, in the case of revocation or suspension proceedings, within ten years of the date of
notice of revocation or suspension, whichever is applicable, has been convicted in a court of
competent jurisdiction of any of the following:
1. A misdemeanor or felony offense that relates directly to the operation of a
massage establishment or the performance of massage services (whether as a massage
establishment owner or operator, massage therapist, or massage therapist trainee).
2. A felony, the commission of which occurred on the premises of a massage
establishment.
B. Within ten years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application in
question or, in the case of revocation or suspension proceedings, within ten years of the date of
notice of revocation or suspension, whichever is applicable, has had denied, suspended, or
revoked for cause any permit or license issued by any governmental entity for any massage
establishment, operator, massage practitioner, massage technician, or massage practitioner
trainee.
5. 56 ( 3) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Within ten years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application in
question or, in the case of revocation or suspension proceedings, within ten years of the date of
notice of revocation or suspension, whichever is applicable, has been convicted in a court of
competent jurisdiction of any of the following:
1. A violation of California Penal Code Sections 220, 261, 266e, 266h, 2661,
314, 315, 316, 318, or 647( b), or when the prosecution accepted a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere to any lesser related offense in satisfaction of, or as a substitute for, any of the crimes
listed in this subsection.
2. A felony offense involving the sale of a controlled substance as defined or
specified in California Health & Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057, or 11058.
3. Conspiracy or attempt to commit any offense listed in Subsection C. 1 or
C. 2 of this section ( defining " Person who has engaged in disqualifying conduct").
4. An offense in a jurisdiction outside the State of California which is the
equivalent of any of the offenses specified in Subsection C. 1 through C. 3 of this section ( defining
Person who has engaged in disqualifying conduct").
5. Any offense involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or moral turpitude.
D. Is required to register under the provisions of California Penal Code Section 290.
E. Within ten years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application in
question, or in the case of a revocation or suspension proceeding, within ten years of the date of
notice of revocation or suspension, whichever is applicable:
1. Has been subjected to a permanent injunction against the conducting or
maintaining of a nuisance pursuant to California Penal Code Sections 11225- 11235 (" Red Light
Abatement") or any similar provisions of law in a jurisdiction outside of the State of California.
2. Has engaged in conduct that would constitute an offense described in
Subsections A or C of this section ( defining " Person who has engaged in disqualifying conduct"),
irrespective of whether the person was charged or convicted of such an offense.
3. Has surrendered or had revoked a Massage Establishment Permit issued
by the City or another jurisdiction due to the occurrence of violations of law in the operation,
conduct, or maintenance of that massage establishment.
Seated Massage or Chair Massage" shall mean any massage of the neck, arms,
shoulders, and back area above the waist where the client is fully clothed, sitting in a special chair
approved by a recognized massage therapy association, designed for the upper body massage
and done without the use of supplementary aids, such as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics,
oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar preparations commonly used in this
practice.
Sole Proprietorship" shall mean any business where the owner is the only person
employed or used by that business to provide massage services.
State Therapist Certificate" shall mean a valid, current, and unexpired certificate issued
by the CAMTC to a either a: ( 1) massage therapist pursuant to Section 4604 of the Business and
Professions Code; or (2) massage practitioner to Section 4604.2 of the Business and Professions
Code. Such a certificate shall constitute a State Therapist Certificate only with respect to the
person to which the certificate has been issued.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 90- 17, Amended 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 2007- 3,
Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09; Ord. No. 2015- 9,
Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.040 Massage Establishment Permit Required; Exemptions
A. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to own, operate, engage in,
conduct, or carry on, or to permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on a massage
establishment business or an off-premises massage business within the City without having first
5. 56 ( 4) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
obtained a valid and current massage establishment permit pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter. A separate Massage Establishment Permit shall be required for each separate massage
establishment operated by such person. The receipt of a Massage Establishment Permit does
not negate the obligation to obtain a City business license in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5. 04 of the Vista Municipal Code.
B. A Massage Establishment Permit shall not be required for a location if all persons
at that location fall into one of the following categories and are providing massages while
performing duties of their respective professions:
1. Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, or osteopaths that are duly licensed
to practice their respective professions in the State of California under the provisions of the
California Business & Professions Code, while performing activities encompassed by such
professional licenses and so long as all massage services are performed under the supervision
of such medical professional.
2. Nurses or physical therapists who are duly registered or licensed to
practice their respective professions in the State of California under the provisions of the California
Business & Professions Code, while performing such activities encompassed by such
professional licenses and so long as all massage services are performed under the supervision
of such medical professional.
3. Acupuncturists and other health care personnel engaged in the healing arts
that are regulated and licensed by the State of California pursuant to the California Business &
Professions Code, Division 2, excluding massage therapists (B& P Division 2, Chapter 10. 5), while
performing activities encompassed by such professional licenses and so long as all massage
services are performed under the supervision of such medical professional, and are providing
massage from a fixed and permanent location of business.
4. Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of the State
of California under the provisions of the California Business & Professions Code, but only
provided that they are lawfully engaged in providing the professional services performed pursuant
to such license and are providing massage from a fixed and permanent location of business.
5. Hospitals, nursing homes, sanatoriums, or other health facilities duly
licensed by the State of California.
6. Day spas as defined in this Chapter that have a current and valid Retail
Sellers Permit/ License as issued by the California Board of Equalization, provided that any
massage is provided from a fixed and permanent location of business and each person providing
a massage holds a State Therapist Certificate.
7. Coaches and trainers in accredited high schools, junior colleges, and
colleges or universities acting within the scope of their employment.
8. Individuals administering massages or seated massages to persons
participating in single- occurrence athletic, recreational, or festival events, such as health fairs,
road races, track meets, triathlons, and other similar events, provided that all of the following
conditions are met:
a. The massage services are made equally available to all participants
at the event.
b. The event is open to participation to the general public or a
significant segment of the public such as employees of sponsoring or participating companies.
C. The massage services are provided at the site of the event and
either during, immediately preceding or immediately following the event. For purposes of this
section, "immediately preceding or immediately following" shall mean either two hours prior or two
hours after the scheduled event.
d. The sponsors of the event have been advised and have approved
the provisions of massage services.
5. 56 ( 5) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
e. The persons providing the massage services are not the primary
sponsors of the event.
f. All massages are performed in public view and massage recipients
are fully clothed.
g. The massage services are provided solely by persons with State
Massage Therapist Certificates.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Amended 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 88-39, Amended 10/ 10/ 88; Ord. No. 2007- 3,
Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-4, Amended 2/ 10/ 09; Ord. No. 2009- 24, Repealed and
Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.050 Application for Massage Establishment Permit
A. Application. Applications for a Massage Establishment Permit shall be filed with
the Director of Economic Development or the Director of Economic Development's designee on
a City- approved form. Each application shall contain and/ or be accompanied by, at a minimum,
the following:
1. The full true name under which the business will be conducted.
2. The address where the business is to be conducted for a massage
establishment, or the address of the business office for an off-premise massage business.
3. The applicant's full, true name, any other names used.
4. The applicant's date of birth.
5. The applicant' s present residential address and telephone number.
6. The applicant's driver' s license and/ or identification card issued by a state
or federal governmental agency, or other photographic identification bearing a bona-fide seal by
a foreign government.
7. If the owner is a domestic stock, domestic non- profit and qualified foreign
corporation, limited liability company, general partnership, or limited partnership, the owner shall
include copies of the following:
a. A business entity status report issued by the California Secretary of
State.
b. Organizational documents for the business entity.
C. Full name, residential address, and business address for each
person with more than a five percent interest in the massage establishment business.
8. Tax identification number for the business.
9. The name, address, email address, and telephone number of the real
property owner and a copy of the lease or rental agreement, if applicable.
10. State Therapist Certificate issued pursuant to Chapter 10. 5 of the California
Business & Professions Code for each owner who has been issued a certificate, or a statement
that such a certificate has not been issued or has been previously revoked or cancelled with
information regarding such revocation or cancelation.
11. A complete statement listing and explaining any and all aliases and
fictitious names used by the owner(s) within the last five years.
12. A list, broken down for each owner or manager of the massage
establishment or off-premises massage business presenting all criminal convictions, including
pleas of nolo contendre, within the last ten years, including those dismissed or expunged pursuant
to Penal Code Section 1203.4, but excluding minor traffic violations, and the date and place of
each such conviction, as well as the reason therefor.
13. A complete set of fingerprints taken for each owner.
14. A signed statement authorizing the City and/ or Sheriff of the County of San
Diego, through their officers, agents and employees, to conduct a background check of the
5. 56 ( 6) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
owner(s) to seek information and conduct an investigation into the trust of the statements set forth
in the application and to ensure continual compliance with all applicable provisions of the law.
15. A signed acknowledgement that the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
conduct of all employees or independent contractors working on the premises of the business
and acknowledging that failure to comply with California Business & Professions Code Section
4600 et seq., with any local, state, or federal law, or with the provisions of this Chapter may result
in the suspension or revocation of the Massage Establishment Permit.
16. A signed statement by each owner that they have received a copy of the
Chapter, understands its contents and the duties imposed on an owner, operator or manager, as
the case may be.
17. The massage establishment employee and contractor list required by
Section 5. 56.070.C, inclusive of all information required therein.
18. A statement in writing and dated by the applicant that he or she certifies
under the penalty of perjury that all information contained in the application is true and correct.
19. If, during the term of a permit, the permit holder has any change in
information submitted on the original or renewed application, the permit holder shall notify the City
of any such change in writing within ten days of such change.
20. Payment of a permit fee sufficient to cover the costs of the permitting
activities as established by City resolution, along with an additional payment to cover the costs of
any live-scan or similar background check undertaken by the City pursuant to the terms of this
Chapter.
B. Term of Validity; Renewal. Every Massage Establishment Permit issued pursuant
to the provisions of this Chapter shall expire on June 30 regardless of the date of issuance, unless
prior thereto revoked by the City or surrendered by the certificate holder. The requirements and
process for the renewal certificate shall be the same as for initial Massage Establishment Permit
as set forth in this section.
C. Authority to Promulgate Regulations. The Director of Economic Development shall
have the power and authority to promulgate rules, regulations, and requirements consistent with
the provisions of Chapter 10. 5 of the Business & Professions Code and this Chapter in connection
with the issuance of Massage Establishment Permits.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.060 Massage Establishment Permit Denial and Appeal
A. The Director of Economic Development may deny an application for a Massage
Establishment Permit or a renewal of that permit for one or more of the following reasons:
1. The application is incomplete and the required supplementary documents
were not submitted within 20 days of a request for those documents by the Director of Economic
Development. An applicant whose application is denied for failure to comply with this subsection
is not eligible to reapply for 180 days.
2. The Director of Economic Development determines, based on substantial
evidence, that the applicant made a material misstatement or omission in the application or in a
previous application for a Massage Establishment Permit. If that misrepresentation is found to be
knowing or intentional, the applicant is ineligible to reapply for five years. If the material
misrepresentation is not knowing or intentional, the applicant may reapply in 180 days.
3. The massage establishment or off-premises massage business, as
proposed, would not comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to the provisions of
this Code and the Development Code.
4. The applicant proposes to locate the massage establishment in the same
building as a massage establishment that surrendered its permit or had its permit revoked within
5. 56 ( 7) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
five years of the application date because a person engaged in any criminal conduct and/ or
violation of this Chapter while on the premises of the former massage establishment.
5. A person listed on the application for the Massage Establishment Permit
as an owner or operator, or who should have been listed on the application, is a person who
engaged in disqualifying conduct. An applicant whose application is denied based on this
subsection is not eligible to reapply for 180 days.
6. The applicant, if a person, is a minor.
B. The Director of Economic Development or the Director of Economic
Development's designee shall notify the applicant by dated written notice of the denial. The
applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision of the Director of Economic Development to
the City Manager by filing a request for an appeal with the Director of Economic Development
within ten calendar days of the date of issuance of the notice in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5. 56. 190 of this Chapter.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.070 Massage Establishment Operating Requirements
No owner, operator, or person shall engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit to be engaged
in, conducted, or carried on, the business of a massage establishment or an off-premise massage
business, unless each and all of the following requirements are met, and every such requirement
shall be deemed a condition of all Massage Establishment Permits:
A. The owner and/ or operator of a massage establishment or off-premises massage
business shall be responsible for the conduct of each employee, independent contractor, or other
person acting as a massage therapist on the premises of the establishment or on behalf of the
off-premises massage business. The owner and/ or operator shall be responsible for ensuring that
each employee, independent contractor, or other person acting as a massage therapist provides
massage services in compliance with the regulations of this Chapter and Business & Professions
Code, Division 2, Chapter 10. 5. Any act or omission of any employee, independent contractor, or
other person acting as a massage therapist constituting a violation of the provisions of this
Chapter or of Chapter 10. 5 of Division 2 of the Business & Professions Code shall be deemed
the act or omission of the owner and/ or operator for all purposes.
B. It is unlawful for any owner, operator, employee, or massage therapist in control of
an off-premises massage business or a massage establishment ( unless exempted pursuant to
Section 5. 56. 040. B) to employ or permit a person to offer to provide or to provide a massage
unless that person holds a State Therapist Certificate.
C. Each owner and operator shall assure that a complete and current massage
establishment employee and contractor list is maintained for each massage establishment or offpremises
massage business. The massage establishment employee and contractor list shall list
all employees and independent contractors acting on behalf or in association with the massage
establishment or off-premise massage business. The list shall: ( 1) identify each massage
therapist who will offer, is offering, or is providing services or massages at the massage
establishment or on behalf of the off-premises massage business; ( 2) the therapist's full name
and any aliases or nicknames used by the therapist; ( 3) the therapist' s home address; ( 4) the
therapist's State Massage Certificate number; (5) a statement whether the massage therapist is
an employee or independent contractor; and ( 6) if the therapist is an independent contractor, the
business license number issued to that independent contractor. A copy of the massage therapist
employee and contractor list shall be provided to the City concurrently with the initial application
for a Massage Establishment Permit, and shall be updated before new massage therapists
commence offering massages as employees or independent contractors for the massage
5. 56 ( 8) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
establishment or the off-premises massage business. If available, the required information shall
be presented using a form prepared and circulated by the City.
D. Each owner and operator of a massage establishment or an off-premises massage
business shall assure that the establishment or business only offers to provide and only provides
massages through persons included on the current massage establishment employee and
independent contractor list with the City on behalf of that establishment or business.
E. Each massage establishment shall have on display its Massage Establishment
Permit and a color copy of the State Therapist Certificate and CAMTC- issued identification card
for each massage therapist providing massage services at the establishment. All such certificates
and identification cards shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place on the premises
where visible to patrons. When present at a massage establishment or providing or preparing to
provide an off-premises massage, each massage therapist shall have in his or her possession his
or her CAMTC- issued identification card and photographic identification sufficient to confirm that
he or she is the person to whom the State Therapist Certificate was issued.
F. Massage establishment operations and off-premises massage business
operations shall be carried on or conducted, and the premises may be open only between the
hours of 6: 00 a.m. and 10: 00 p.m. No person shall administer or permit another to administer a
massage at a massage establishment between the hours of 10: 00 p.m. and 6: 00 a. m., and all
customers and patrons shall be excluded from the massage establishment during these hours,
even if a treatment or a massage initiated during permitted operational hours remains incomplete.
The hours of operation shall be prominently displayed in a conspicuous public place in the lobby
within the massage establishment and at the front entrance clearly visible from the outside.
G. A list of services available and the cost of such services shall be posted at a
massage establishment in an open public place within the premises, such as a reception or lobby
area, and shall be described in readily understandable terms. All letters and numbers shall be
capitals measuring not less than one- half inch in height. An off-premises massage business shall
maintain such a list in written form and shall assure that each massage therapist carries such a
price list when visiting an off-premises location and provides a copy for viewing to any client prior
to agreeing on or providing a massage.
H. No massage establishment or off-premises massage business shall permit the
offering of services, the provision of services, or the collection of a fee for services other than
those posted at a massage establishment or set forth on a list in compliance with Subsection
5. 56. 070. G.
I. Arrangements for massage services shall be made and payment for said massage
services shall be received prior to the performance of any massage service.
J. Arrangements for massage services to be provided at a massage establishment
shall be made in a room in the massage establishment that is not used for the administration of
massage services, such as a lobby or reception area.
K. All payments for massage services at a massage establishment shall be made in
a room in the massage establishment that is not used for the administration of massage services,
such as a lobby or reception area.
L. No massage therapist shall solicit or offer to perform for any patron any additional
massage service after such massage therapist has commenced the performance of any massage
service for such patron.
M. A massage therapist shall not, after the commencement of any massage services
for any patron, advise, suggest, or otherwise indicate to such patron that any additional service is
available, or ask or inquire of such patron whether such patron desires any additional service to
be performed. A massage therapist shall not perform any service for any patron which was not
ordered or arranged for by such patron prior to the commencement of performance of any service
rendered.
5. 56 ( 9) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
N. A massage therapist shall not solicit any form of gratuity or pay from any patron
for any services rendered, nor shall any massage therapist accept any form of gratuity or pay
directly from any patron.
O. A massage may not be carried on within any cubicle, room, booth, or any area
within a massage establishment, which is not immediately accessible to supervisory, safety, or
inspection personnel during all hours of operation.
P. During a massage, and immediately before or after a massage, a massage
therapist's attire:
1. May not be transparent, see-through, or arranged to substantially expose
the massage therapist's undergarments.
2. May not consist of swim attire, unless the therapist is in the process of
providing the client with a water-based massage modality approved by the CAMTC.
3. May not be arranged to expose the therapist' s breasts, buttocks, or
genitals.
4. May not produce a condition in violation of Section 314 of the Penal Code.
Q. A massage shall not be given unless the patron' s genitals and pubic area are fully
covered and, in addition, a female patron' s breasts are fully covered. No massage shall be
provided to a patron that results in intentional contact, or occasional and repetitive contact with
the genitals, anus, or areola of a patron.
R. Alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted in any portion of a massage
establishment. No person shall enter, be or remain in any part of a massage establishment while
in possession of, consuming, or using any alcoholic beverage or drugs except pursuant to a
prescription for such drugs. The owner, operator, responsible managing employee, manager, or
permittee shall not permit any such person to enter or remain on such premises.
S. All exterior doors at a massage establishment shall remain unlocked from the
interior side during business hours.
T. For a massage establishment, doors to room, cubicles, booths, or other areas in
which massage services are being performed shall be non- lockable and shall not be equipped
with a " peep hole," camera, or any other device that allows one to see into or out of the room
when the door is closed.
U. Massage establishments shall at all times be equipped with an adequate supply of
clean towels, coverings and linens, which shall be stored in cabinets with doors. Towels and linens
shall not be used on more than one patron, unless they have first been laundered and disinfected.
Disposable towels and coverings shall not be used on more than one patron. Soiled linens and
towels shall be deposited in separate, approved receptacles.
V. For a massage establishment, bathrooms shall be thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected with a disinfectant as needed and at least once each day the premises are open. All
walls, ceilings, floors, and other physical facilities for the establishment must be in good repair
and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
W. Instruments for performing massage shall not be used on more than one patron
unless they first have been properly sanitized.
X. No massage establishment or off-premises massage business shall operate a
school of massage, or use the same facilities as that of a school of massage.
Y. The owner or operator of each massage establishment or an off-premises
massage business shall keep a written record in English of the date and hour of each treatment
administered, the name and address of each patron, the name of the massage therapist
administering treatment, and the type of treatment administered, to be recorded on a patron
release form. Such written record shall be open to inspection by officials charged with the
enforcement of this Chapter. Such records shall be kept on the premises of the massage
establishment, or in the designated offices of the off-premise massage business, for a period of
two years.
5. 56 ( 10) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Z. The owner or operator of each massage establishment and each off-premises
massage business shall file with the Director of Economic Development annually, documents
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of California evidencing
that the massage establishment or business is insured under a liability insurance policy providing
minimum coverage in an amount of$ 250, 000, or such higher amount as may be set by resolution
of the City Council, for injury or death to one person arising out of the operation of any massage
establishment or business. Such insurance shall be kept in full force and effect at all times.
AA. No part of a massage establishment shall be used for residential or sleeping
purposes. No cooking or food preparation shall be allowed on the premises unless performed in
a full service kitchen. Such a kitchen shall be for the sole use of employees and shall be installed
in an " employee only" area. The full service kitchen shall have a minimum of a sink with hot and
cold running water, a refrigerator, a microwave or stove and sufficient cabinets to store cooking
utensils.
AB. The massage establishment, the off-premises massage business, and each
massage therapist acting on behalf of such establishment or business shall comply with all
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, health, zoning, fire and safety requirements and
standards.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 88-39, Amended 10/ 10/ 88; Ord. No. 2007- 3,
Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9,
Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.080 Massage Establishment Facility Requirements
Every massage establishment shall maintain facilities meeting the following requirements,
and each such requirement shall be deemed a condition of the Massage Establishment Permit:
A. Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with Article 220 of the National
Electric Code, and in addition, at least one artificial light of not less than 40 watts shall be provided
in each room or enclosure where massage services are performed on patrons. The artificial light
shall be on at all times the room or enclosure is occupied by a patron.
B. Adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing instruments used in performing
the acts of massage shall be provided.
C. Hot and cold running water shall be provided at all times.
D. Cabinets shall be provided for storage of clean linens.
E. Adequate dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided for patrons.
F. Pads used on massage tables shall be covered with durable washable plastic or
other waterproof material.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.090 Seated Massage
It shall be unlawful for any person to provide seated massages unless the person holds a
State Therapist Certificate.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 100 Off-Premises Massage
It shall be unlawful for any person to provide an off-premises massage unless the person
holds a State Massage Therapist Certificate. All off-premises massages shall be subject to the
following restrictions:
5. 56 ( 11) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
A. No massage therapist shall provide off-premises massage to any person under the
age of 18 unless a parent or guardian is present or provides a signed written consent prior to the
commencement of the massage.
1. No person under the age of 18 years shall receive an off-premises
massage from a massage therapist unless a parent or guardian is present or provides a signed
written consent prior to the commencement of the massage.
B. Any massage therapist performing off-premises massage must comply with the
operating standards set forth in Subsections 5. 56. 070. G, H, I, L, M, N, P, Q, W, and Y.
C. No massage therapist shall provide off-premises massage at any hotel room, motel
room, or commercial establishment, except within the office of the person receiving the massage.
For purposes of this section, a hotel room or motel room is not considered an office.
D. Off-premises massage may be conducted at the customer' s residence, but shall
not be conducted at the residence of the massage therapist. For purposes of this section, a hotel
room or motel room is not considered a residence.
E. Massage therapists performing off-premises massages shall comply with the Vista
Development Code, including obtaining a Home Occupation Permit, if applicable, subject to a
prohibition on providing massages at the permittee' s residence.
F. Off-premises massage may only be conducted between the hours of 9: 00 a.m. and
10: 00 P. M.
G. Massage therapists performing off-premises massage services as authorized by
this Chapter shall maintain written record of all off-premises massage services performed in the
City. Records shall be made of each appointment at which services were provided and shall
include the following information in English:
1. Date and time off-premises massage services were provided.
2. Patron' s full name and residential address.
3. Address where off-premises massage services were provided.
4. Full name of massage therapist providing services.
5. Type of treatment administered.
These records shall be retained at the massage therapist's principal place of
business for at least two years beyond the date services were provided. These records shall be
open to inspection upon request by officials charged with enforcement of this Chapter in order to
ensure compliance with this Chapter, or any other applicable local, county, state, or federal law
or regulation.
H. Upon demand by any official charged with enforcement of this Chapter, a massage
therapist performing off-premises massage services shall provide satisfactory evidence that the
massage therapist has a State Therapist Certificate.
I. It is unlawful for a person to provide an off-premises massage unless that person
is listed on a current massage establishment employee and contractor list for a massage
establishment or an off-premises massage business.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 110 Massage Establishment Inspections
A. As a condition of any Massage Establishment Permit, the owner and/ or operator
agrees and consents to inspections of the premises by City Building, Fire and Code Compliance
personnel, or any other official designated with enforcement of this Chapter, for purposes of
determining compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and other applicable regulations,
ordinances, and laws.
5. 56 ( 12) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Each massage establishment owner and operator shall take immediate action to
correct each violation noted. A re- inspection will be performed within 30 days to ensure that each
violation noted in the inspection has been corrected.
C. The owner and operator shall cause to be conspicuously posted so that the same
may be readily visible to persons in the reception area of the massage establishment, in letters
that are a minimum of one inch in height, a notice in English which announces substantially as
follows:
THIS MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND THE MASSAGE
ROOMS DO NOT PROVIDE COMPLETE PRIVACY AND
ARE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION BY THE CITY AND
HEALTH OFFICIALS WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE.
In addition, operators are encouraged to post this notice in language(s) that are
best understood by customers of the massage establishment.
D. No person shall refuse to permit, cause delay of, or interfere with, a lawful
inspection or compliance check of the premises by the officials listed in division (A) of this section
at any time.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 120 Massage Establishment Permits Not Assignable
A Massage Establishment Permit may not be sold, transferred or assigned by the holder
of said certificate, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer,
or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer, or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a
voluntary surrender of such certificate and such certificate shall thereafter be deemed terminated
and void, provided and excepting, however, that if the certificate holder is a partnership and one
or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase
or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or partners without effecting the surrender or
termination of such certificate and in each case the certificate holder shall thereafter be deemed
to be the surviving partner(s). A Massage Establishment Permit issued to a corporation shall be
deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold,
transferred, or assigned after the issuance of a certificate, or any stock authorized, but not issued
at the time of the granting of the certificate is thereafter issued or sold, transferred, or assigned
so that a new owner, as defined in this Chapter, results.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 130 Change of Location or Name, Separate Location
A. A change of location of any massage establishment must first be approved by the
Director of Economic Development who must determine, prior to approval, that all ordinances and
regulations of the City be complied with at any proposed new location. A change of location shall
also require a permit holder and license holder to file for a new business license and a new
Massage Establishment Permit.
B. No massage establishment or off-premises massage business shall operate under
any name or specified in its Massage Establishment Permit.
5. 56 ( 13) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of
business of a massage establishment shall require compliance with Section 5. 56.080 of this
Chapter and all applicable building and development/zoning code provisions.
D. A separate Massage Establishment Permit shall be required for each location of a
massage establishment.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009- 24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 140 Business License Requirements Not Waived
A. Although an owner of a massage establishment or an off-premises massage
business may hold a Massage Establishment Permit, the owner is required to obtain a business
license and pay the resulting business license tax in accordance with Chapter 5. 04.
B. Before allowing an independent contractor to commence work in a massage
establishment or for an off-premises massage business, the owner shall obtain a current and valid
copy of the independent contractor's business license issued by the City of Vista pursuant to
Chapter 5.04 which the owner shall maintain on the premises of the massage establishment or in
the business offices of the off-premises massage establishment.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 150 Massage Therapist Regulations
Each massage therapist must satisfy each of the following:
A. Except for massages provided by professionals in the manner described in Section
5. 56. 040. B, a massage therapist shall not perform a massage in the City unless the massage
therapist has been issued a State Massage Therapist Certificate.
B. With the exception of off-premise massages provided in accordance with this
Chapter, a massage therapist shall only perform massages at: ( 1) a massage establishment for
which the City has issued a valid Massage Establishment Permit; or ( 2) a location which is
specifically exempted by Section 5. 56. 040. B from the obligation to obtain a Massage
Establishment Permit.
C. Massage therapists shall not perform any massage service at a massage
establishment unless the massage therapist has verified that his or her State Therapist
Certification is displayed at that massage establishment in conformity with Section 5. 56.070. D.
D. A massage therapist shall not provide a massage in the City for compensation
between the hours of 10: 00 p.m. and 6: 00 a. m. ( or 9: 00 a. m. for an off-premises massage), and
must conclude all treatments or massages by 10: 00 p. m.
E. A massage therapist shall not provide any massage service unless the massage
therapist has first verified that a list has been posted at the massage establishment which presents
the available services and the cost of those services in compliance with Section 5. 56. 070. G, or
that the massage therapist, when preparing for or providing an off-premises massage, is
possessed of a written list of available services and their cost as required by Section 5. 56.070. G.
F. A massage therapist shall not provide services, nor collect a fee for services, other
than those posted in compliance with Subsection 5. 56.070. G.
G. A massage therapist shall assure that all arrangements for massage services are
made and payment for said massage services has been received prior to the performance of any
massage service.
H. Arrangements for massage services shall be made in a room in the massage
establishment that is not used for the administration of massage services, such as a lobby or
reception area.
5. 56 ( 14) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
I. All payments for massage services shall be made in a room in the massage
establishment that is not used for the administration of massage services, such as a lobby or
reception area.
J. No massage therapist shall solicit or offer to perform for any patron any additional
massage service after such massage therapist has commenced the performance of any massage
service for such patron.
K. A massage therapist shall not perform any service for any patron which was not
ordered or arranged for by such patron prior to the commencement of performance of any service
rendered. A massage therapist shall not, after the commencement of any massage services for
any patron, advise, suggest, or otherwise indicate that any additional service is available, or ask
or inquire whether the patron desires any additional service to be performed.
L. A massage therapist shall not solicit any form of gratuity or pay from any patron
for any services rendered, nor shall any massage therapist accept any form of gratuity or pay
directly from any patron.
M. When providing a massage or when visible to client at a massage establishment
or a location of an off-premises massage, a massage therapist must be attired with clothes, and
the attire:
1. May not be transparent, see-through, or arranged to substantially expose
the massage therapist's undergarments.
2. May not consist of swim attire, unless the therapist is in the process of
providing the client with a water-based massage modality approved by the CAMTC.
3. May not be arranged to expose the therapist' s breasts, buttocks, or
genitals.
4. May not produce a condition in violation of Section 314 of the Penal Code.
N. A massage shall not be given unless the patron' s genitals and pubic area are fully
covered and, in addition, a female patron' s breasts are fully covered. No massage shall be
provided to a patron that results in intentional contact, or occasional and repetitive contact with
the genitals, anus, or areola of a patron.
O. A massage therapist shall not provide a massage in a location where alcoholic
beverages or non- prescription drugs are permitted or are in possession of the client.
P. A massage therapist shall assure that all exterior doors at a massage
establishment shall remain unlocked from the interior side during business hours.
Q. A massage therapist shall not use instruments for performing massages which
have been used on a prior patron unless those instruments have first been properly sanitized.
R. A massage therapist shall prepare a written record in English, or assure that a
written record in English is prepared, setting forth the date and hour of each treatment
administered by the massage therapist, the name and address of each patron, and the type of
treatment administered, to be recorded on a patron release form.
S. A massage therapist shall not use any portion of a massage establishment for
residential or sleeping purposes. A massage therapist shall not use any portion of a massage
establishment for cooking or food preparation, unless performed in a full service kitchen.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 160 Notice of Changes
A. The operator of any massage establishment in the City shall notify the Director of
Economic Development, in writing, of the name and address of the employment or termination of
employment of each person used to provide massage services at such establishment within five
calendar days of employment or termination of employment. The requirements of this section are
5. 56 ( 15) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
in addition to other provisions of this Chapter and nothing contained herein shall relieve the
massage establishment operator of the responsibility of ascertaining, prior to employment,
whether said person has a current and valid State Therapist Certificate.
B. Any holder of a State Therapist Certificate shall notify the Director of Economic
Development, in writing, within five calendar days of the commencement of any allegations,
charges, or proceedings that could result in disciplinary action against the holder' s state
certification or the suspension or revocation of state- issued certificate of exemption. A certificate
holder shall also notify the Director of Economic Development, in writing, within 15 calendar days
of any change in management, or of any intent to rename or change the ownership of the business
establishment.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 170 Advertisement
Any advertisement, including, but not limited to, business cards, print, television, radio or
electronic media, for a massage establishment an off-premises massage business, or the
performance of massage services shall include the number of the Massage Establishment Permit
issued to the massage establishment being advertised and the number of the State Therapist
Certificate issued to the massage therapist that will be performing the massage or supervising
services being advertised.
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007-3, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 180 Revocation of Massage Establishment Permits
A. Grounds for Revocation. In addition to any grounds provided elsewhere in this
Chapter, the Director of Economic Development shall revoke any Massage Establishment Permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter upon any of the following grounds:
1. An owner or operator in possession of a State Therapist Certificate has had
that certificate revoked.
2. A holder of a Massage Establishment Permit employs or uses massage
therapists who are not possessed of a State Therapist Certificate.
3. The holder of the Massage Establishment Permit has caused, allowed, or
suffered any material violation of any provision of Chapter 10. 5 (" Massage Therapists") of the
California Business & Professions Code.
4. The holder of the Massage Establishment Permit has caused, allowed, or
suffered a material violation of any provision of this Chapter.
B. Procedures for Revocation. Upon determining that a ground for revocation exists
as specified in Subsection 5. 56. 180.A, the Director of Economic Development shall issue a written
notice of revocation to the holder of the Massage Establishment Permit either via personal service
or via United States mail, postage prepaid, to the permit holder's last known address. The notice
of revocation shall advise the certificate holder of the revocation, of the grounds for the revocation,
and of the certificate holder' s ability to appeal the determination in accordance with the provisions
of Section 5. 56. 190 of this Chapter. Failure of a permit holder to receive a properly addressed
notice of revocation shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant to this Chapter.
C. Reapplication after Revocation. Any person whose Massage Establishment Permit
has been canceled, revoked, or invalidated pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter may not
reapply for such certificate for a period of five years from the date such revocation, cancellation,
or invalidation became final.
5. 56 ( 16) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 1613; Ord. No. 73- 13, Added 3/ 26/ 73; Ord. No. 2007- 3, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07; Ord.
No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced, 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9, Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56. 190 Procedure for Appeal of Denial or Revocation of Massage
Establishment Permit
A. Request for Appeal. Any holder of a Massage Establishment Permit, within ten
calendar days after issuance of any notice of denial or revocation, may file a request for an appeal
to the City Manager through the Director of Economic Development. The request for an appeal
must be made in writing and must contain, at a minimum, the following information:
1. The name of the appellant and the address of the applicable establishment
where the appellant was authorized or was seeking to be authorized to provide massage services.
2. The date of denial or revocation by the Director of Economic Development.
3. A brief statement as to the grounds for appeal ( or reason for contending
the denial or revocation was erroneous or clearly an abuse of discretion) in sufficient detail to
enable the City Manager to understand the nature of the controversy.
4. The signature of the appellant/ applicant under penalty of perjury as to the
contents of the request for appeal.
B. Appeal Hearing. The City Manager or his designee shall schedule and hear the
appeal within 45 calendar days of the filing of the request for appeal. The appellants listed on the
request for appeal shall be notified in writing of the date, time, and location of the appeal hearing
at least ten calendar days prior to the date of the hearing. Appeal hearings are informal, and
formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply. Unless otherwise specifically provided by
law, the burden at the appeal hearing is on the appellant to prove that the determination of the
Director of Economic Development or the Director of Economic Development's designee, which
is being appealed, is erroneous or clearly an abuse of discretion. The failure of the appellant to
appear for the appeal hearing shall be deemed a withdrawal of the appellant' s request for an
appeal and a waiver of the right to appeal. Not later than 20 calendar days following the conclusion
of the appeal hearing, the City Manager or designee shall issue a written Notice of Decision and
serve the appellants with same via personal service or via United States Mail, postage prepaid,
at the last known address. Failure of any appellant to receive a properly addressed Notice of
Decision shall not invalidate any action or proceeding under this Chapter. The decision of the
City Manager or his designee shall be final and binding.
Ord. No. 2007- 3, Added 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9,
Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.200 Violation and Penalty
A. A violation or failure to comply with any provision of this Chapter, or any condition
of a permit or certificate issued pursuant to this Chapter, shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment in the City or County Jail for a period not exceeding six months or by
a fine not to exceed $ 1, 000 ( plus applicable penalty assessments), or by both such fine and
imprisonment, unless:
1. The City Attorney/ City Prosecutor authorizes the issuance of an infraction
citation.
2. The City Attorney/ City Prosecutor files a complaint charging the offense as
an infraction.
3. After the filing of a misdemeanor complaint, the court, on motion of the City
Attorney/ City Prosecutor, reduces the offense to an infraction, and the defendant does not object
to having the case proceed as an infraction.
5. 56 ( 17) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
B. It shall constitute a new and separate offense for each day, or portion thereof,
during which any violation of any provision of this Chapter is committed, continued, maintained,
permitted, or suffered. Revocation of any license, permit, or certificate pursuant to this Chapter
shall not be a defense against any prosecution or other proceeding.
C. Any massage establishment operated, conducted, or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter shall be unlawful and a public nuisance, and the City may, in addition
to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions,
proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement, removal, and enjoinment thereof, in a manner
provided by law, including administrative citations.
D. A prevailing party in any administrative, equitable, or civil action to abate, remove,
terminate, or enjoin a public nuisance ( which, based on Chapter 8.36, results from a violation of
this Code), or in any appeal or other judicial action arising therefrom, may recover reasonable
attorneys' fees in accordance with the following subsections:
1. Attorneys' fees are not recoverable by any person as a prevailing party
unless the City Manager elects in writing to seek recovery of the City's attorneys' fees at the
initiation of that individual action or proceeding. Failure to make such an election precludes any
entitlement to, or award of, attorneys' fees in favor of any person or the City.
2. Provided that the City has made an election to seek attorneys' fees, an
award of attorneys' fees to a prevailing party shall not exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys'
fees incurred by the City in that action or proceeding.
Ord. No. 2007- 3, Added 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9,
Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
Section 5.56.210 Enforcement
The Code Compliance Manager, the Building Official or law enforcement, the Office of the
City Attorney/City Prosecutor, or any other person designated by the City Manager, have the
authority to enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
Ord. No. 2007- 3, Added 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No. 2009- 24, Repealed and Replaced 12/ 1/ 09, Ord. No. 2015- 9,
Amended 5/ 12/ 15)
5. 56 ( 18) Vista 7/ 8/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.60
Pawnbrokers and Secondhand Dealers
Sections:
5. 60.010 Definitions
5. 60.020 Banks Exempted from Regulations
5. 60.030 Residency Requirements
5. 60.040 Record Keeping - Generally
5. 60.050 Report of Transactions to be Made Daily
5. 60.060 Record Keeping - by Money Lenders
5. 60.070 Reports to be Confidential
5. 60.080 Hours of Operation
Section 5. 60.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Pawnbroker" means every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business
of loaning money, either for himself or for any other person upon any personal property or
personal security, or purchasing personal property and reselling such articles to the vendor or
other assignee at prices previously agreed upon.
Secondhand Dealer" means every person conducting, managing or carrying on the
business of buying and selling used jewelry, watches, diamonds, clothing, musical instruments,
luggage, sporting goods, furniture, junk and secondhand automobiles.
Prior Code 21- 1; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.020 Banks Exempted from Regulations
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to apply to the loaning of money on
personal property or personal security by any bank authorized to do so under the laws of the
state.
Prior Code 21- 2; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.030 Residency Requirement
No person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer shall buy or sell used jewelry, watches, diamonds, clothing, musical
instruments, luggage, sporting goods, furniture, junk and secondhand automobiles, or loan
money either for himself or for any other person, upon any personal property or personal
security, or purchase personal property and resell such articles to the vendor or other assignee
at prices previously agreed upon, unless the owner and operator is a bona fide resident of the
city for at least one year prior to the granting of the license for such pawnbroker, money lender
or secondhand dealer.
Prior Code 21- 3; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.040 Record Keeping - Generally
All junk dealers, pawnbrokers and dealers in secondhand articles of every kind, nature
or description shall keep a record of any and all articles by such person acquired by purchase,
5. 60 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
pledge or otherwise, which record shall at all times during ordinary business hours be open to
inspection by any police officer of this City.
Prior Code 21- 4; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.050 Report of Transactions to be Made Daily
A. Any person regulated by this chapter shall, in addition to keeping the record
required by Section 5. 60.040, daily deliver to the Chief of Police of the City, upon a blank form
which shall be furnished such persons by the Chief of Police for that purpose, a full, true and
complete report of all such previously named articles acquired by purchase, pledge or otherwise
by such persons during the entire calendar day preceding such report, together with the hour of
the day at which, and a reasonable description and a true name of the person from whom such
article was so acquired, as accurately as can be obtained by the person making such report.
B. The Chief of Police shall cause a sufficient number of such blank forms for such
reports to be kept available and in such form and with such blank spaces thereon to effect the
purpose of this section, as the Chief of Police prescribes.
Prior Code 21- 5; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.060 Record Keeping - by Money Lenders
A. All money lenders shall keep a record of all loans made by them, which shall at
all times during ordinary business hours be open to inspection by any police officer of this City.
B. Such records shall contain the names and addresses of all persons to whom
loans are made, and a reasonable description of such persons, the amount of money loaned
and the length of time during which such loan is to continue, and the rate of interest exacted for
such loans.
Prior Code 21- 6; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.070 Reports to be Confidential
Any report made, delivered or received pursuant to this chapter shall be open only to the
inspection of the Police Department, unless exhibited by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
Prior Code 21- 7; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 60.080 Hours of Operation
A. No person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of pawnbroker shall
conduct such business as follows:
1. Between the hours of 8: 00 p.m. and 8:00 a. m. on weekdays.
2. Between the hours of 10: 00 p.m. on Saturday and 8: 00 a. m. on Monday.
3. On the following days: January 1, May 30, July 4, the first Monday in
September, Thanksgiving Day as designated by the President of the United States, December
25.
4. Between December 5 and December 24, both inclusive, a place of
business may be permitted to remain open until 9: 00 p. m.
Prior Code 21- 8; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 60 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.64
Peddlers and Solicitors
Sections:
5. 64.010 Purpose
5. 64.020 Definitions
5. 64.030 Solicitor License Required
5. 64.040 Employee Identification Card Required
5. 64.050 Terms of License and Fees
5. 64.060 Contents of License or Identification Card Application
5. 64.070 Suspension - Hearing
5. 64.080 Exemptions from Chapter
5. 64.090 Exemptions from Fees
5. 64. 100 Identification Card Exhibition
5. 64. 110 License not Transferable
5. 64. 120 Disclosure to Prospective Donor
5. 64. 130 Hours of Business
5. 64. 140 Prohibited Vending
5. 64. 150 Violation - Penalty
Section 5. 64.010 Purpose
The City Council declares the purpose of this chapter is to safeguard the public against
fraud, deceit and imposition, and to foster and encourage fair solicitations or sales solicitations
for charitable purposes, wherein the person from whom the money is being solicited will know
what portion of the money will actually be utilized for charitable purposes. This chapter will
promote legitimate solicitations and sales solicitations for charitable purposes and restrict
harmful solicitation methods, thus the people of this city will not be misled into giving solicitors a
substantial amount of money which may not in fact be used for charitable purposes.
Prior Code 22- 1; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Charity" means and includes any person who, or any nonprofit community
organization, fraternal, benevolent, educational, philanthropic or service organization, or
governmental employment organization which solicits or obtains contributions solicited from the
public for charitable purposes or holds any assets for charitable purposes.
Commercial Fundraiser for Charitable Purposes" means any individual, corporation
or other legal entity who for compensation does either of the following:
1. Solicits funds in this state for charitable purposes and who receives and
controls the funds or assets solicited for charitable purposes; or
2. As a result of the solicitation of funds in this state for charitable purposes,
receives and controls the funds or assets solicited for charitable purposes. Such commercial
fundraiser for charitable purposes is deemed a solicitor as defined in this section and shall
comply with Government Code Section 12599.
5. 64 ( l) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Completed Solicitation" means a solicitation is completed whether or not the person
making or receiving the solicitation receives or makes any contribution or makes any sale or
purchase referred to in this chapter.
Goods" means goods, wares, merchandise, products, chattels of any description,
magazines, periodicals or other publications or subscriptions therefore, except for regularly
published newspapers.
Identification Card" means the solicitor identification card issued by the City to a
person who possesses a valid solicitor' s license or who is employed or engaged to solicit by a
person licensed to do business as a solicitor within the city.
License" means that license which is issued to a person who is doing business as a
solicitor in the city.
Public Place" means any place to which anyone may have access without
trespassing.
Sales Solicitation for Charitable Purposes" means the sale of, offer to sell, or
attempt to sell any advertisement, advertisement space, books, cards, chance, coupon device,
magazine subscription, memberships, merchandise, ticket of admission or any other thing or
service in connection with which:
1. Any appeal is made for charitable purposes;
2. The name of any charity, philanthropic or charitable organization is used
or referred to in any such appeal as an inducement for making any such sales; or
3. Any statement is made to the effect that the whole or any part of the
proceeds from such sale will go to or be used for any charitable purposes or organization.
Solicitations for Charitable Purposes" means any request, plea, entreaty, demand
or invitation, or attempts thereof, to give money or property, in connection with which:
1. Any appeal is made for charitable purposes;
2. The name of any charity, philanthropic or charitable organization is used
or referred to any such appeal as an inducement for making any such gifts; or
3. Any statement is made to the effect that such gift or any part thereof will
go to or be used for any charitable purpose or organization.
Solicitor" means and includes peddlers, hawkers, transient dealers, sales persons or
other itinerant vendors, or any person who sets up a temporary stand for the purpose of selling
services, or in any manner or means whatsoever, offers to sell, or sells by sample, or takes
orders for, gives away or otherwise disposes of any goods, or anything of value, or who offers to
distribute or delivers any coupon, certificate, handbill, ticket, token card, papers, circulars,
chance coupon, magazine or other items which in turn are redeemable for goods, or who
receives compensation of any type in connection with promoting, conducting or making a sales
solicitation or obtaining or attempting to obtain contributions solicited from the public for
charitable or religious purposes.
Prior Code 22- 2; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.030 Solicitor License Required
A. It is unlawful for any person, association, corporation, partnership or organization
to do business as a solicitor, as defined in Section 5. 64.020 of this chapter, within the city
without first obtaining a solicitor's license from the City.
B. Any person employed or engaged in solicitations solely as an employee of a
licensed solicitor shall, in lieu of obtaining a solicitor' s license, comply with Section 5. 64.040 of
this chapter.
Prior Code 22- 3; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
5. 64 ( 2) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 64.040 Employee Identification Card Required
It is unlawful for any person to be employed by any individual, association, corporation,
partnership or organization licensed under this chapter, to function or perform as a solicitor
within the city without first obtaining a solicitor's identification card from the City.
Prior Code 22- 4; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.050 Terms of License and Fees
A. Application for the license and identification card required by Sections 5. 64. 030
and 5. 64.040 shall be made upon forms provided by the City Finance Department, notarized or
affirmed, and filed with the Finance Department at least 30 days prior to the date of
commencement of the proposed solicitation. Upon good cause shown, the Finance Department
may allow the filing of an application less than 30 days prior to the commencement of the
proposed solicitation.
B. The term of a solicitor's license or identification card is one year; however, at the
discretion of the issuing officer or at the request of the applicant, the term may be for a lesser
period. Thereafter, the license or identification card may be renewed for a period of one year
any time within 30 days prior to the expiration date of said license or identification card upon
application therefore.
C. The fee for a new solicitor's license is $ 50 for a period of one year or less. The
fee for a license renewal is $ 40.
D. The fee for a new solicitor's identification card is $ 35. The fee for an
identification card renewal is $ 25. One identification card shall be issued without charge to the
applicant who has paid the fee for a solicitor's license.
E. The appropriate fee shall accompany each application and is nonrefundable.
The fees stated in this section are not for revenue purposes but shall be used to defray, in part,
the administrative costs, the cost of investigation and enforcement of this chapter.
Prior Code 22- 5; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.060 Contents of License or Identification Card Application
A. The applicant for a license and/ or identification card shall apply to the City as set
forth in Section 5. 64.050 and is required to furnish the following information:
1. The name and address of the person applying for the permit.
2. If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant's principal officers and managers, together with written authorization to make the
application signed by two of the applicant' s principal officers.
3. Physical description of the applicant and three photographs.
4. Fingerprints of the applicant.
5. Local address.
6. Permanent address.
7. Description of the proposed solicitation indicating the type of
communication involved.
8. Description of the nature of the business for which the solicitation is being
done.
9. Description of the nature of the goods or services to be offered.
10. The purpose for which the solicitation is to be made.
11. The names and addresses of all persons who will be in charge of
conducting the solicitation and the names and addresses of all promoters connected or to be
connected with the proposed solicitation.
5. 64 ( 3) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
12. The names and addresses of all solicitors to whom " information cards"
are to be issued, unless in the opinion of the issuing officer the solicitation campaign is of such
magnitude and involves such a great number of volunteer solicitors as to make it impractical to
provide the same.
13. The length of time for which such license is desired.
14. If solicitors under the age of 16 are to be used, a statement of the manner
in which solicitors shall be supervised.
15. The dates and hours when the solicitations are proposed to begin, and
the expected duration of the proposed solicitation.
16. A statement of all convictions for all misdemeanors and felonies.
17. Proof of the nonprofit and tax-exempt status of the sponsoring charitable
or religious organization.
B. Upon receipt of an application for a license and/ or identification card, the issuing
officer may send copies of such applications to the Sheriff's Department or any department
which the issuing officer deems essential in order to carry out a proper investigation of the
applicant. The issuing officer may forward fingerprints to the California Bureau of Identification
for research.
C. If there is any change in fact, policy or method that would alter the information
given in the application, the applicant shall notify the City in writing thereof within five days.
D. All applications filed under the provisions of this chapter become and remain a
public record open to the inspection of all persons.
Prior Code 22- 6; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.070 Suspension - Hearing
When, in the opinion of the issuing officer, there is a clear and immediate threat to the
safety and protection of the public, the issuing officer may suspend a license without a hearing.
The issuing officer shall prepare a written notice of suspension, which includes a statement of
the action, a concise explanation of the reasons for the action, the statutory basis relied upon for
such action, and an explanation of the licensee's right to request a hearing from the hearing
officer. Such notice shall be either sent by certified mail to the licensee' s last address provided
in the application or be personally delivered. The licensee may request a hearing from the
hearing officer within five days of receipt of notification that the license has been suspended.
The issuing officer shall notify the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and the
hearing shall be conducted in the manner prescribed in this chapter. The hearing shall be held
not more than 15 days from the date of receipt of said request for hearing. Following the
hearing, the person affected may appeal the decision in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
The decision shall not be stayed during pendency of such hearing or appeal.
Prior Code 22- 12; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.080 Exemptions from Chapter
This chapter shall not apply to:
A. Students from an elementary school or a junior high school, or a high school, or
public junior or community college, or public college or public university or any private
educational institution listed in Education Code Section 29003, while such students are engaged
in an activity associated with academic or scholastic functions sponsored by and authorized by
such school.
B. Wholesalers, their representatives, agents or employees calling upon retail
businesses, nor to retail businesses when such sales are made in the regular course of
business and at the established place of business.
5. 64 ( 4) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Sales by a farmer or rancher for products produced within San Diego County by
such farmer or rancher at the established place of business of such farmer or rancher.
D. Persons who sell their goods at the rented stall of a lawfully operated swap meet.
E. A newspaper editor and employees.
F. Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts or any similar youth organization, while
engaged in an activity associated with that youth organization which is sponsored by or
authorized by such youth organization.
G. Children on Little League teams while engaged in activities associated with the
Little League teams and sponsored and authorized by such Little League teams.
Prior Code 22- 13; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.090 Exemptions from Fees
Applicants for a solicitor' s license or solicitor' s identification card as described in this
chapter are exempt from the appropriate fees:
A. Veterans of the Army, Navy, Marines, or Air Force as defined in Section 16102 of
the Business and Professions Code of the State of California. Before any such veteran shall be
licensed under the provisions of this chapter, such veteran shall submit to the issuing officer
proof of release from active duty under honorable conditions or a certified copy of an honorable
discharge from the United States service.
B. Solicitors who are engaged exclusively in soliciting orders as an agent or
representative of any person or persons engaged in interstate commerce which have their place
or places of business outside the State of California. Before any such agent or representative is
licensed under the provisions of this chapter, that agent or representative shall submit to the
issuing officer satisfactory identification and interstate commerce credentials from the person
represented, and comply with all other sections of this chapter.
Prior Code 22- 14; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.100 Identification Card Exhibition
Every person licensed under the provisions of this chapter, while engaged in the
business for which licensed, shall display their identification card on the front of their person in a
manner and in a location allowing such identification card to be easily seen and read by any
other person, and upon demand by any peace officer or Code Enforcement Officer shall exhibit
such identification card.
Prior Code 22- 15; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.110 License not Transferable
Such license or identification card is not transferable from person to person or place to
place.
Prior Code 22- 16; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64.120 Disclosure to Prospective Donor
Solicitors shall disclose, upon request by the prospective donor, any and all information
requested.
Prior Code 22- 17; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
5. 64 ( 5) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 64. 130 Hours of Business
No person shall do business as a solicitor from 8:00 p. m. to 8: 00 a. m., local time, except
by appointment.
Prior Code 22- 18; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64. 140 Prohibited Vending
A. No solicitor shall contact or attempt to contact any occupant of any house,
dwelling or mobilehome where the owner or occupant of the house, dwelling or mobilehome has
posted at the front of the house, dwelling or mobilehome, printed with letters not less than one
inch in height, and at a location which is unobstructed and clearly visible from the normal
entranceway to such house, dwelling or mobilehome, a sign or placard prohibiting such
soliciting.
B. No solicitor shall contact or attempt to contact any member of the public on any
private commercial property which is normally open to the general public where the owner or
legal occupant thereof has posted at all entrances thereto, and printed with letters not less than
one inch in height, and at a location which is unobstructed and clearly visible by all persons
entering such property, a sign or placard prohibiting such soliciting.
Prior Code 22- 19; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 5. 64. 150 Violation - Penalty
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 22- 20; Ord. No. 90- 6, Repealed and Replaced, 1/ 8/ 90)
5. 64 ( 6) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.68
Peep Show Establishments
Sections:
5. 68.010 Purpose and Intent
5. 68.020 Definitions
5. 68.030 Permit - Required
5. 68.040 Permit - Term
5. 68.050 Permit - Fee
5. 68.060 Permit - Application - Investigation Fee
5. 68.070 Permit - Application - Investigation
5. 68.080 Permit - Issuance or Denial
5. 68.090 Permit - Suspension or Revocation
5. 68. 100 Hearing
5. 68. 110 Appeal
5. 68. 120 Reapplying After Revocation
5. 68. 130 Permit Affixed to Device
5. 68. 140 Wall, Partition Construction
5. 68. 150 Minimum Aisle Width
5. 68. 160 Minimum Doorways
5. 68. 170 Lighted Exit Signs
5. 68. 180 Patron View of Doorway
5. 68. 190 Minimum Lighting
5. 68.200 Maximum Occupancy Load
5. 68.210 Maximum Number of Devices
5. 68.220 Variance
5. 68.230 Free Access to City Manager or Delegate
5. 68.240 Injunctive Relief
5. 68.250 Violation - Penalty
Section 5. 68.010 Purpose and Intent
Prior Code 3- 29; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.020 Definitions
Prior Code 3- 30; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.030 Permit - Required
Prior Code 3- 31; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.040 Permit - Term
Prior Code 3- 32; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.050 Permit - Fee
Prior Code 3- 33; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
5. 68 ( l) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 68.060 Permit - Application -Investigation Fee
Prior Code 3- 34; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.070 Permit - Application - Investigation
Prior Code 3- 35; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.080 Permit - Issuance or Denial
Prior Code 3- 36; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.090 Permit - Suspension or Revocation
Prior Code 3- 39; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 100 Hearing
Prior Code 3- 38; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 110 Appeal
Prior Code 3- 39; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 120 Reapplying After Revocation
Prior Code 3- 40; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 130 Permit Affixed to Device
Prior Code 3- 41; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 140 Wall, Partition Construction
Prior Code 3- 42; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 150 Minimum Aisle Width
Prior Code 3- 43; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 160 Minimum Doorways
Prior Code 3- 44; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 170 Lighted Exit Signs
Prior Code 3- 45; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68. 180 Patron View of Doorway
Prior Code 3- 46; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
5. 68 ( 2) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 68. 190 Minimum Lighting
Prior Code 3- 47; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.200 Maximum Occupancy Load
Prior Code 3- 48; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.210 Maximum Number of Devices
Prior Code 3- 49; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.220 Variance
Prior Code 3- 53; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.230 Free Access to City Manager or Delegate
Prior Code 3- 50; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.240 Injunctive Relief
Prior Code 3- 51; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 5. 68.250 Violation - Penalty
Prior Code 3- 52; Ord. No. 77- 44, Enacted 8/ 8/ 77; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
5. 68 ( 3) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 72
Pool and Billiard Rooms
Sections:
5. 72. 010 License Required
5. 72. 020 Application - Investigation - Grant or Denial
5. 72. 030 Revocation of License - Grounds
5. 72. 040 Intoxicating Liquors Prohibited
5. 72. 050 Persons Under 16 Not to Participate in or Witness Games
5. 72. 060 Gambling Prohibited
5. 72. 070 Payment for Games May be Decided by Result
Section 5. 72. 010 License Required
It is unlawful for any person to manage, operate or conduct any pool or billiard room
in the city without obtaining from the City Council a license authorizing such person to keep,
maintain and conduct a pool or billiard room.
Prior Code 3- 6; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 72. 020 Application - Investigation - Grant or Denial
A. Every applicant for a pool and billiard room license shall file an application
with the City Council setting forth his name, place of residence and how long he has resided
in the city. Each applicant shall furnish reasonable proof to the Sheriff of the County or the
Chief of Police of the City that he is a fit and proper person to conduct and carry on a pool
and billiard room and that he is of good character and habits. Thereafter, the Sheriff or the
Chief of Police shall inquire into the qualifications of the applicant and of his character,
habits and fitness to conduct a pool and billiard room. The Sheriff or the Chief of Police
shall report the results of his investigation to the City Council. After consideration of the
report of the Sheriff or the Chief of Police and any other evidence received by it, the City
Council may grant the permit, or deny the permit if there is substantial evidence that the
applicant is a person of idle, lewd, dissolute or immoral character and is a person who, as
shown by his previous conduct, is not fit to conduct a pool or billiard room business.
B. An investigation fee of $50 shall be paid upon filing the application.
Prior Code 3- 7; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 72. 030 Revocation of License - Grounds
The City Council has the power to revoke any license granted under the provisions of
this chapter upon the giving of ten days' notice to the licensee of its intention to revoke, such
notice to specify the date, hour and place of the meeting at which the proposed revocation is
to be considered. Violation of any of the provisions of this code, or of any law, or the
maintenance by the licensee of any condition injurious to the public health, safety or morals
constitutes grounds for such revocation.
Prior Code 3- 9; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 72 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 72. 040 Intoxicating Liquors Prohibited
It is unlawful for the proprietor of any business establishment within which there is a
pool or billiard room, or for the manager or agent of such proprietor, to permit the drinking of
any spirituous, vinous, malt or other intoxicating liquors of any kind or character in the area
or enclosure set aside and used as a pool or billiard room.
Prior Code 3- 10; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 72. 050 Persons Under 16 Not to Participate in or Witness Games
A. It is unlawful for the proprietor, manager or other person in charge of any pool
or billiard room to permit any person under the age of 16 years to engage in or play billiards
or pool in such licensed premises unless accompanied by his parent or legal guardian.
B. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be or remain in any
area or enclosure set aside and used as a licensed pool or billiard room to witness any
game of pool or billiards or other game played therein, unless accompanied by his parent or
legal guardian.
Prior Code 3- 11; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 72.060 Gambling Prohibited
It is unlawful for the proprietor, manager or agent of such proprietor, to permit any
gambling or any kind or character to be carried on in such pool or billiard room or to permit
any betting or wagering to take place or occur therein upon any game of billiards or pool
played in such licensed pool or billiard room.
Prior Code 3- 12. 1; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 5. 72. 070 Payment for Games May be Decided by Result
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any two or more persons from
deciding by the result of the game of pool or billiards played by them who shall pay the fee
or amount charged by the proprietor for the use of the pool or billiard table at which such
persons play.
Prior Code 3- 12. 2; Ord. No. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66)
5. 72 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.76
Swap Meets and Swap Lots
Sections:
5. 76.010 Background
5. 76.020 Intent
5. 76.030 Definitions
5. 76.040 License Required
5. 76.050 Application to License Collector
5. 76.060 Police Investigation - Fee
5. 76.070 Grant or Denial of Application - Appeal
5. 76.080 Suspension or Revocation - Grounds
5. 76.090 License Not Transferable
5. 76. 100 Admission Records
5. 76. 110 Trading Area
5. 76. 120 Inspection by Public Safety Officers
5. 76. 130 Hours of Operation
5. 76. 140 Prohibited Articles
5. 76. 150 Notice
5. 76. 160 Penalty for False Information - Failure to Furnish Information
Section 5.76.010 Background
Swap meets have developed into a large commercial enterprise in the city and
surrounding areas in San Diego County involving many citizens and attracting out-of-city/ county
and out- of-state participants. At the present time there are no regulations controlling their
operation. Swap meets should be subject to the necessary regulatory provisions that apply to
any other business in this city. Investigation has shown that both new and used items and
stolen merchandise are sold. There are special regulations, both local and state, on pawn
shops and because they are especially susceptible places to dispose of stolen goods, most
certainly similar control should be applicable to swap meets.
Prior Code 19- 9; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76.020 Intent
It is the intent of this chapter that swap meets be subject to proper regulations similar to
regulations applicable to businesses with similar problems, that swap meet owners and
operators pay their share of regulatory costs and that the citizens who attend swap meets be
protected by appropriate controls of swap meet operations.
Prior Code 19- 10; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76.030 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
Owner" or " Operator" means the person or persons who control the admission,
directly or through agents, of persons and merchandise into the trading area.
Swap Lot" means a building, structure, enclosure, lot or other area into which persons
are admitted to display, exchange, barter, buy, sell or bargain for new or used merchandise.
Swap Meet" means the activity carried on in such a location.
Prior Code 19- 11; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
5. 76 ( l) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 76.040 License Required
It is unlawful for any person to operate a swap meet in the city unless such person has
been issued a license as provided in this chapter.
Prior Code 19- 12; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76.050 Application to License Collector
Application for such license shall be made to the license collector on forms provided by
the license collector.
Prior Code 19- 13; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76.060 Police Investigation - Fee
A. For the purpose of this section, the Chief of Police of the City means the duly
appointed acting Chief of Police of the City Police Department, if any, and in the absence of
such appointment the Chief of Police means the Sheriff of the County of San Diego.
Immediately upon receipt of an application for a license the Chief of Police shall proceed to
investigate the truth of the matters set forth in said application, the character of the applicant,
the character of the persons who have direct management of the swap meet and the character
of the premises proposed to be used as a swap lot.
B. An investigation fee of $ 50 shall be paid upon filing the application with the
license collector.
Prior Code 19- 14; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 58, Amended 12/ 22/ 75)
Section 5. 76.070 Grant or Denial of Application - Appeal
A. The Chief of Police shall approve or deny the issuance of the license for which
application is made. The Chief of Police has the power to deny any application if it appears that
the applicant or the person to have direct management of the swap meet is not a suitable or
proper person to carry on the swap meet operation, or if the premises proposed to be used as a
swap lot is not a suitable or proper place for swap meets, or if the health, welfare or public
morals of the community warrant such denial. The applicant may appeal the denial of a license
in the manner provided for in Subsection B of this section.
B. Any person aggrieved by the denial of a license may appeal in writing to the City
Council. Such appeal shall, within five days after notice of denial of a license be filed with the
City Clerk, who shall set the matter for hearing as soon as practical and notify by mail the Chief
of Police and the applicant of the time and place set for such hearing. Any interested person
may appear and present evidence at the public hearing. The City Council may approve or deny
the issuance of the license. The action of the City Council on such appeal is final.
Prior Code 19- 15; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76.080 Suspension or Revocation - Grounds
In addition to the causes for denial of a license set forth in Section 5. 76.050, any license
issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended at any time after a hearing, notice of
which shall be given to the licensee more than ten days prior to such hearing, when the City
Council finds:
A. The operation of the swap meet is contrary to the public interest, or does not
comport with the public welfare; or
B. The swap meet has been operated in an illegal, improper or disorderly manner.
Prior Code 19- 16; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
5. 76 ( 2) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 76.090 License Not Transferable
Such license is not transferable.
Prior Code 19- 18; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 100 Admission Records
A. The owner or operator of an enterprise described in this chapter, or his employee
or agent, is required to submit daily to the Chief of Police, on forms prescribed by him, the
following information on each person admitted who brings merchandise to the swap meet for
sale or trade:
1. Name and address.
2. Date and time of entry.
3. Vehicle description and license number, if any.
4. General description which reasonably describes all property brought into
the trading area; provided, however, that where property is identifiable by a serial number,
where property shows evidence of having had a serial number, where property has distinctive or
personal identifying marks such as names or initials or where property shows evidence of
having had such identifying marks, the property shall be specifically described including said
serial numbers and distinctive identifying marks along with color, name and make.
5. Signature of such person.
B. These forms of admission records shall be available for inspection by the Chief of
Police during normal business hours.
Prior Code 19- 19; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 110 Trading Area
Swap meet activities shall be conducted only in a building, structure or other area
enclosed by a permanent fence which is sufficient to enable the owner or operator, or his
employee to control effectively the ingress and egress of persons and merchandise.
Prior Code 19- 20; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 120 Inspection by Public Safety Officers
All merchandise admitted into the area shall be arranged so that the Chief of Police,
Building Inspector, Health Officer, Fire Department officers, state fire wardens and other officials
may have access for inspection at all times during hours of operation.
Prior Code 19- 21; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 130 Hours of Operation
The business defined in this chapter shall be conducted between 6: 00 a. m. and 6: 00
p. m.; provided, however, that no one shall be admitted to the swap lot after 5: 00 p.m. Such
businesses shall not be conducted on the following holidays: December 25, Labor Day and
Thanksgiving Day.
Prior Code 19- 22; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 140 Prohibited Articles
It is unlawful for any person to exchange, barter, trade or sell firearms or explosives in a
swap meet.
Prior Code 19- 23; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
5. 76 ( 3) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 76. 150 Notice
The operator of any swap meet shall take reasonable steps to notify all participants of
the regulations and prohibitions contained in this chapter, including but not limited to the posting
of notices in conspicuous places on the premises where such swap meet is conducted.
Prior Code 19- 24; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
Section 5. 76. 160 Penalty for False Information - Failure to Furnish Information
Knowingly furnishing false information or failure to furnish information, where information
is required by the provisions of this chapter, constitutes a violation of this chapter.
Prior Code 19- 25; Ord. No. 70- 14, Added 3/ 16/ 70)
5. 76 ( 4) Vista 2/ 13/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 80
Taxicabs
Sections:
5. 80.010 Purpose
5. 80.020 Issuing Authority
5. 80.030 Regulations
5. 80.040 Definitions
5. 80.050 Licensing Fees
5. 80.060 Driver' s Identification Card
5. 80.070 Insurance Required
5. 80.080 Taxicabs Operation, Color, Trademark, or Insignia
5. 80.090 Effective Date
5. 80. 100 Violation and Penalty
Section 5. 80.010 Purpose
A. Without first having obtained the permit required by this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for a person to carry on a business utilizing taxicabs or jitneys within the city.
B. Without first having obtained the permit required by this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a taxicab or jitney for the purpose of soliciting passengers within
the city.
C. Without first having obtained a business license required by City ordinance, it
shall be unlawful for any person to carry on a business utilizing taxicabs or jitneys within the city.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008-9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.020 Issuing Authority
The City of Vista City Manager or his or her designee shall be the Issuing Authority for
the permits required by this chapter. The City Council may, by resolution, establish the amount
of the operating permit fee and an administrative fee for processing the application, to be paid to
the City of Vista.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/65; Ord. No. 83- 8, Amended
2/ 28/ 83; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.030 Regulations
In addition to the general provisions of this title applicable to this chapter, there is hereby
adopted, by reference, by the City of Vista, for the purpose of prescribing rules and regulations
for the protection of the public health and safety, Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 2 of the San
Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances commencing with Section 21. 301 relating to
taxicabs and taxicab operations, together with such secondary references as are included in
those portions, effective as of the date set forth in Section 5. 80.060. The provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the limits of the city to include without limitation, the fees, regulatory
provisions, and definitions, except as amended and excluding the procedural provisions beyond
those required for processing applications, conducting investigations, issuing permits, and
enforcing regulatory provisions.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008-9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
5. 80 ( l) Vista 6/ 12/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 80.040 Definitions
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Section 21. 301 is hereby amended to
add the following:
s) " City Medallion" means a pre-numbered decal issued annually to the permit
holder and placed on a taxicab by the Issuing Officer signifying that the taxicab is authorized to
operate in the City of Vista.
t) " Issuing Officer" means the City Manager or his or her designee.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.050 Licensing Fees
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Section 21. 309 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
a) An application for a taxi operator's license and vehicle permit shall be
accompanied by the fee set forth in the San Diego County Sheriff's Licensing Fee Ordinance.
b) In addition to any fee imposed by the County of San Diego for operating a
taxicab business, a taxicab operator's permit application shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the City Council.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/65; Ord. No. 83- 8, Amended
2/ 28/ 83; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.060 Driver' s Identification Card
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Section 21. 312(a) is hereby
amended to read as follows:
a) It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab to pickup or discharge passengers
in the City of Vista without a current driver' s identification card from the County of San Diego.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008-9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.070 Insurance Required
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Section 21. 311 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
a) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation doing taxicab
business within the City of Vista to operate any taxicab unless there shall be filed with the City
of Vista Business License Division evidence of insurance coverage by a company authorized to
carry on insurance business in the State of California with coverage in the amounts that meet
the requirements of subparagraph ( b) below. The insurance coverage required by this section
shall insure the public against any loss of damage for which the owner is legally liable that may
result to any person or property from the operation of any taxicab used by the owner. The
taxicab operator shall furnish the Business License Officer with a certificate of insurance
coverage as a prerequisite to obtaining a taxicab operator's license. The certificate shall
provide that the insurer will notify the Business License Officer in writing of any policy
cancellation and the notice shall be sent to the Business License Officer by registered mail at
least 30 days prior to cancellation of the policy. The certificate shall also state:
1) The full name of the insurer;
2) The name and address of the insured;
3) The insurance policy number;
4) The type and limits of coverage;
5. 80 ( 2) Vista 6/ 12/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
5) The specific vehicle( s) insured;
6) The effective dates of the certificate; and
7) The certificate issue date.
b) The insurance shall provide coverage for each taxicab in an amount not less than
350, 000 per occurrence, combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage.
c) In addition to the requirements in subparagraph ( a) of this section, insurer must
also meet the following criteria:
1) Admitted in California by the California Department of Insurance;
2) Insurers must have an A.M. Best Company Financial strength rating of Aexcellent)
or better; and
3) All companies must have a financial size category of not less than VII
seven-$ 50-$ 100 million), or similar Standard and Poor's rating.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08; Ord. No. 2011- 6, Amended 9/ 15/ 11; Ord. No. 2018-9, Amended 6/ 12/ 18)
Section 5. 80.080 Taxicabs Operation, Color, Trademark, or Insignia
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances Section 21. 317 shall be amended to
add the following:
d) Each taxicab licensed by the Issuing Officer to operate in the city shall bear a
City Medallion issued by and placed by the Issuing Officer.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80.090 Effective Date
The effective date of this chapter is April 11, 2008.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008- 9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
Section 5. 80. 100 Violation and Penalty
Violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
not exceeding six months or by fine not exceeding $ 1000 or by both fine and imprisonment
unless the City Attorney authorizes issuance of an infraction citation or files a complaint
charging the offense as an infraction; or the court, with the consent of the defendant, determines
that the offense is an infraction. Each day on which a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense. Revocation of a license, permit, or certificate shall not be a defense against
prosecution.
Prior Code 30- 1 to 30- 18; Ord. No. 65- 39, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 24/ 65; Ord. No. 2008-9, Repealed
and Replaced, 3/ 11/ 08)
5. 80 ( 3) Vista 6/ 12/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.84
Teenage Dances
Sections:
5. 84.010 Definitions
5. 84.020 Applicability
5. 84.030 Permit - Required - Eligible Applicants
5. 84.040 Permit - Classification
5. 84.050 Permit - Application
5. 84.060 Permit - Fees Nonrefundable
5. 84.070 Permit - Investigation - Issuance
5. 84.080 Permit - Expiration - Renewal
5. 84.090 Permit - Suspension and Revocation
5. 84. 100 Appeals
5. 84. 110 Supervision and Lighting Required
5. 84. 120 Parking Area Requirements
5. 84. 130 Closing Hour
5. 84. 140 Reentrance of Participants Prohibited
5. 84. 150 Advance Advertising Restricted
5. 84. 160 Use of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
5. 84. 170 Loitering Restricted
5. 84. 180 Inspection of Premises
5. 84. 190 Employment of Police
5. 84.200 Rules and Regulations Generally
Section 5. 84.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
Adult" means any person 21 years of age or over.
Adult Sponsoring Group" means a nonprofit organization, one of whose objectives is
to sponsor, regulate and control youth activities and child welfare, and which assumes full and
complete responsibility for the direction of a teenage dance.
Police" or " Policeman" means any private police officer, any peace officer, whether
on duty or off duty, reserve deputy or special deputy, employed by any public agency or political
subdivision.
Private Teenage Dance" means a closed dance for members of an organization and
their invited guests.
Teenage" means any person 14 or more years of age but under 19 years of age.
Teenage Dance" means a dance attended by any teenage person unaccompanied by
his parents or guardian.
Youth Service Organization" means any bona fide organization whose primary
purpose is to provide moral or spiritual development, education or recreation for teenagers.
Prior Code 17- 4; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.020 Applicability
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any teenage dance conducted or
sponsored:
5. 84 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
A. By any agency or department of any City, political subdivision, school district or
other governmental agency;
B. In a private home; or
C. By any recognized youth service organization for its members and guests only,
provided, that the guests shall not exceed the number of members present.
Prior Code 17- 5; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.030 Permit - Required - Eligible Applicants
A. In addition to any other permit or license required by law or this Code, it is
unlawful for any person to conduct or sponsor any teenage dance in the city, except in
accordance with the terms of this chapter and after obtaining a permit therefore as provided in
this chapter.
B. It is unlawful for any person to secure a permit to conduct or sponsor a teenage
dance unless such person is an adult or an adult sponsoring group which has been approved by
the License Department and which has assumed full and complete responsibility for the event,
its direction and fees.
Prior Code 17- 6; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.040 Permit - Classification
The License Department may issue the following classes of teenage dance permits:
A. A Class "A" permit which is issued for a period of one calendar year; or
B. A Class " B" permit which is issued for one day or one night only.
Prior Code 17- 7; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.050 Permit - Application
A. An application for a permit shall be made to the License Department upon a form
prescribed by such department and shall contain such information as the License Department
may require by rule or regulations to assist it in determining whether the applicant and the
premises qualify for a permit. The application shall be filed with the License Department not
less than ten days prior to the scheduled date of the teenage dance. The application shall
contain the following:
1. The names and addresses of the applicant or applicants.
2. The date upon which the dance is to be held.
3. The approximate attendance expected at such dance.
4. The names, addresses and phone numbers of all chaperons or
supervisors. Two chaperons at least 25 years of age, one of whom shall be a woman, shall be
present at every teenage dance.
5. The class of permit and facts upon which the applicant bases his request
for the class of permit applied for.
6. A statement containing the following information regarding the place or
premises where the teenage dance is to be held:
a. That the premises are reasonably adequate to hold the dance.
b. That the premises do not violate any ordinance of the county or
law of the state relating to health, safety and fire.
C. The maximum number of persons that can be safely
accommodated on the premises.
5. 84 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. The application shall be verified under oath and accompanied by the applicable
fee. The application shall be signed by the applicant. In the case of an adult sponsoring group,
the application may be signed by any member of the group.
C. The License Department may waive the furnishing of any information when such
application is filed by a member of a youth service organization when such organization has
previously obtained a Class "A" permit from the License Department.
Prior Code 17- 8; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.060 Permit - Fees Nonrefundable
In the event that the application is denied or the permit is revoked, no part of any
applicable fee shall be refunded.
Prior Code 17- 9; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.070 Permit - Investigation - Issuance
Upon the receipt of an application for a permit under this chapter, and the application
fee, the License Department shall refer the application to the Commanding Officer of the Vista
Substation of the Sheriffs Department, who shall make such investigation as it may deem
necessary to determine whether the applicant and the premises for which a permit application
has been made qualify for a permit. The License Department shall deny any application for a
permit if either the applicant or the premises for which the permit application has been made do
not qualify for a permit under this chapter. The License Department shall issue a permit if it
finds that the applicant is qualified and has not had a permit revoked by the License Department
within one year prior to the date of application; and that the place or premises where the
teenage dance is to be held do not violate this chapter or the ordinances of the county or the
laws of the state; and that the dance will not be contrary to the public health, morals, peace,
welfare or safety. The License Department may issue a permit under any conditions which it
deems reasonably necessary for the protection of the public health, welfare, morals or safety.
Prior Code 17- 10; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.080 Permit - Expiration - Renewal
A. A Class " A" permit issued pursuant to this chapter expires at 12: 00 midnight one
calendar year from the date of issue. Such permit may be renewed upon application of the
permittee. The renewal fee shall be the same as the fee prescribed for an original application
for such permit and shall accompany the application for renewal.
B. A Class " B" permit issued pursuant to this chapter expires at 12: 00 midnight of
the date for which it was issued. Such permit shall not be renewed, but a new application shall
be filed with the License Department to obtain a new permit.
Prior Code 17- 11; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.090 Permit - Suspension and Revocation
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the License
Department upon any of the following grounds:
A. The misrepresentation of a material fact in the application for a permit by an
applicant or by the holder of a permit.
B. The violation of any provision of this chapter by the holder of a permit.
C. When the continuance of a permit would be contrary to the public welfare, peace
or morals.
Prior Code 17- 12; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
5. 84 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 84.100 Appeals
Within five days after receiving written notification from the License Department that an
application for permit under this chapter has been denied, revoked or renewal denied, any
applicant or permittee may file a written request for a public hearing before the City Council.
Upon filing of such a request, the City Clerk shall fix a time and place for the hearing and shall
notify the applicant thereof. At the hearing, the applicant or permittee may present evidence in
support of his application. Any interested person may, at the discretion of the City Council, be
allowed to participate in the hearing and present evidence. Within ten days after the conclusion
of the hearing, the City Council shall render a written report either granting or denying the
application for a permit. In this report, the City Council shall state the facts upon which its
decision is based. This report shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk for public inspection
and a copy mailed to the applicant. The decision of the City Council is final.
Prior Code 17- 13; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.110 Supervision and Lighting Required
All places where teenage dances are held shall be adequately chaperoned and
supervised and adequately lighted at all times when open for dancing, and the intensity of
illumination shall not be less than one foot-candle in all parts of the building and premises
accessible to participants.
Prior Code 17- 14; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.120 Parking Area Requirements
All off-street parking facilities made available for participants of a teenage dance shall be
adequately lighted and supervised.
Prior Code 17- 15; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.130 Closing Hour
All teenage dances shall be closed and the premises cleared of participants on or before
the hour of 12: 00 midnight.
Prior Code 17- 16; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.140 Reentrance of Participants Prohibited
No minor admitted to a teenage dance shall be permitted to leave and thereafter reenter
the dancing premises during the course of the dance.
Prior Code 17- 17; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.150 Advance Advertising Restricted
No teenage dance shall be advertised by use of any media of public advertising prior to
the issuance of the teenage dance permit authorizing such dance.
Prior Code 17- 19; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.160 Use of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, consumed or be available on the premises in or
about which any teenage dance is held. Admission to a teenage dance shall be denied to any
5. 84 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
person who is or has been drinking any alcoholic beverages or who has any alcoholic beverage
on his person.
Prior Code 17- 20; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.170 Loitering Restricted
No person, other than a participant at a teenage dance or a member or employee of the
sponsoring group, shall loiter around or about the premises at which a teenage dance is being
conducted.
Prior Code 17- 22; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.180 Inspection of Premises
Any law enforcement officer of the City or any member of a Fire Department charged
with the duty of law enforcement shall have free access at all times to any teenage dance
issued a permit under the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 17- 23; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.190 Employment of Police
A. The permittee under this chapter shall employ, and there shall be on duty at all
times during any teenage dance, at least one policeman for every one hundred participants with
a minimum of one policeman for every exit and entrance.
B. Adult sponsoring groups raising funds for use by their organization to promote
youth activities may, at the discretion of the Sheriffs Department, dispense with the employment
of police, where it can furnish proof of having present a sufficient number of adult persons to
maintain order.
Prior Code 17- 24; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64; Ord. No. 64-45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
Section 5. 84.200 Rules and Regulations Generally
The License Department is authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and
regulations as it deems reasonably necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter, provided,
that such rules and regulations shall not become effective until approved by the City Council
and a copy of such rules and regulations is filed with the City Clerk.
Prior Code 17- 25; Ord. No. 64- 45, Added 10/ 27/ 64)
5. 84 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.88
Wrecking Yards and Junkyards
Sections:
5. 88.010 Applicability
5. 88.020 Fence Required - Exception
5. 88.030 Storage of Vehicles in Streets
5. 88.040 Noncomplying Yards to be Abated as Public Nuisances
5. 88.050 Record of Purchases
5. 88.060 Evidence of Non-Operating Vehicles
5. 88.070 Evidence of Motor Vehicle Wrecking Yard
5. 88.080 Enforcement of Chapter
Section 5. 88.010 Applicability
It is expressly declared that this chapter applies to all existing junkyards and all auto
wrecking yards or similar facilities permitted pursuant to applicable zoning regulations of the
City.
Prior Code 15- 6; Ord. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 84- 11, Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
Section 5. 88.020 Fence Required - Exception
No person licensed under this chapter shall store, keep or maintain upon any yard, plot,
space or tract of land in this city any scrap iron, secondhand or used machinery, or secondhand
furniture or furnishings; or keep, maintain, repair, store, assemble or disassemble any motor
vehicle upon any yard, plot, space or tract of land in this city, unless such yard, plot, space or
tract of land is enclosed within a fence six feet in height and constructed of material which has
at least one hour fire resistance. This section does not apply to a duly licensed used car lot
business.
Prior Code 15- 7; Ord. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 84- 11, Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
Section 5. 88.030 Storage of Vehicles in Streets
A. No person shall park, keep, maintain, or store upon any public street or alley
within this city any motor vehicle which has been placed in his possession for the purpose of
repairing, sale, or storage.
B. The provisions of this section do not apply in cases of fires or other emergencies
or for temporary parking not in excess of one hour.
Prior Code 15- 8)
Section 5. 88. 040 Noncomplying Yards to be Abated as Public Nuisances
Any yard, plot, space, or tract of land which is kept, operated, or used in violation of
Sections 5. 88. 020 and 5. 88. 030 may be summarily abated as a public nuisance.
Prior Code 15- 9)
5. 88 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 88.050 Record of Purchases
Every person licensed under this chapter shall keep a record in written English of
each purchase made by the licensee where the purchase is initiated and completed and
delivery is made by the vendor or his agent within the city. This record shall be made on
forms furnished by the Sheriff or the Chief of Police and shall show the following:
A. The name of the person from whom the goods were purchased, together with
the address and description of the person from whom such goods were purchased, and the
license number and description of the vehicle in which the goods are delivered to the
purchaser.
B. Such record shall be made in triplicate, written, printed or typed in a legible
manner, and shall describe the thing or things purchased by the name of the article, the
name of the manufacturer, if known, and serial number or numbers, if the article is one
which is identified by such numbers.
C. Such records shall be kept on file at the place of business of the licensee for
a period of two years, and shall be available for inspection by the Sheriff or any of his
deputies or the Chief of Police, or any peace officer of this state, at all reasonable times.
D. The licensee shall forward on the first day of each week copies of such lists
of property so purchased to the office of the Sheriff or of the Chief of Police who shall keep
on file in his office for a period of two years all reports so received.
Prior Code 15- 10)
Section 5. 88. 060 Evidence of Non- Operating Vehicles
A. Except as otherwise legally authorized by special use permit in the M- 1 zone, the
presence on any lot or parcel of land of two or more motor vehicles which are not capable of
operating under their own power shall constitute prima facie evidence of the storage of nonoperating
motor vehicles.
B. As to any lot or parcel of land improved with residence buildings or occupied by a
bona fide residence, the person so occupying the same may store one non- operable vehicle as
defined in this chapter, provided that such vehicle is either contained:
1. Within an enclosed garage located on the lot or parcel of land on which
the residence is located; or
2. On the rear one- third of the lot or parcel of land on which the residence is
located, provided that such vehicle is screened from public view by six- foot fencing approved by
the City Manager or his designee.
C. This section does not apply to motor vehicles which are registered as classic or
antique motor vehicles as determined by the California Department of Motor Vehicles. Storage
of more than one non- operable vehicle, including registered classic or antique motor vehicles,
will only be allowed by minor use permit.
D. This section shall prevail over all other code sections as it relates to the
interpretation of non- operable vehicles.
Prior Code 15- 11; Ord. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 83- 42, Amended 8/ 8/ 83; Ord. No. 84- 11,
Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
Section 5. 88.070 Evidence of Motor Vehicle Wrecking Yard
The presence on any lot or parcel of land of two or more motor vehicles which are not
capable of operating under their own power, and from which parts have been or are to be
removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima facie evidence of a motor vehicle wrecking
yard.
5. 88 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 15- 12; Ord. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 83- 42, Amended 8/ 8/ 83; Ord. No. 84- 11,
Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
Section 5. 88.080 Enforcement of Chapter
The City Manager or his designee is directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 15- 13; Ord. 66- 24, Amended 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 83- 42, Amended 8/ 8/ 83; Ord. No. 84- 11,
Amended 2/ 27/ 84)
5. 88 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.90
Day Labor Employment
Sections:
5. 90.010 Definitions
5. 90.020 Compliance
5. 90.030 Hiring Day Laborers
5. 90.040 Registration Certificates; Application and Issuance
5. 90.050 Registration Certificates; Renewals
5. 90.060 Registration Certificates; Updates
5. 90.070 Maintenance, Inspection and Display of Records
5. 90.080 Responsible Department
5. 90.090 Limitation
5. 90. 100 Enforcement and Penalties
Section 5. 90.010 Definitions
For purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.
Act" means the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, as it may be amended
from time to time.
Agent" means a natural person who, on behalf of an employer and with the employer' s
consent, makes an offer of day labor employment. Consent can be conveyed in writing, orally,
or tacitly through an employer's practice of hiring persons identified or selected by such person.
Authorized Agent" means any person listed on a current registration certificate as an
agent of the employer for purposes of making offers of day labor employment.
Day Laborer" means a person who accepts an offer of day labor employment or
otherwise performs day labor employment.
Day Labor Employment" means employment satisfying each of the following
characteristics: ( 1) the initial employment offer occurs at an uncontrolled location; ( 2) promptly
or shortly after the employment offer is made, the employer, directly or through an agent,
transports the employee from the uncontrolled location to a different location where the
employee will work; and ( 3) the duration of employment does not exceed two days. Any offer of
employment satisfying clauses ( 1) and ( 2) is presumed to be for two days or less. The
presumption may be rebutted by presenting evidence of a written employment contract for a
period of three or more days.
Effective Date" means the date on which a registration certificate is issued and
becomes effective.
Employer" means a natural person, corporation, business or other entity which: ( 1)
hires a person to perform day labor employment; or ( 2) makes an offer to hire a person to
perform day labor employment whether directly or through an agent.
Expiration Date" shall mean the first June 30 of an even year following the date of
issuance for a registration certificate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date of issuance falls
on or between May 1 and June 29 of an even year, the expiration date shall be the second June
30 of an even year following the date of issuance.
Person" means any natural person, corporation, business, or other entity, including,
without limitation, any employer, agent, or authorized agent.
Responsible Department" shall have the meaning provided in Section 5. 90. 080.
5. 90 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Registration Certificate" means a certificate issued and executed pursuant to Section
5. 90. 040.
Term Sheet" means a sheet that is formatted for the signature of the employer or an
authorized agent and which includes the following: ( 1) the name, address and phone number of
the employer; ( 2) the name of the person, whether the employer or the employer's authorized
agent, who made the offer of day labor employment; ( 3) the signature of the person making the
offer of day labor employment; ( 4) the name of the day laborer; ( 5) the type of work to be
performed by the day laborer; ( 6) the hourly rate of pay to be earned by the day laborer; ( 7) if
known, the exact number of hours to be worked by the day laborer; ( 8) if the exact number of
hours to be worked is not known, the range of hours to be worked with both a minimum number
and maximum number; ( 9) the address of each work site at which the day laborer will be
working; and ( 10) whether the day laborer, upon concluding work, will be transported to the
original location at which an offer of work was made or if the day laborer will be required to
make personal arrangements for transportation from the work site. All information on a term
sheet shall be pre- printed or legibly written.
Uncontrolled Location" means all locations except: ( 1) a property owned, rented or
otherwise controlled by the employer; or ( 2) a property where the employer serves as a
contractor or subcontractor, provided that any work offer made by the employer or an agent is
for work at that property.
Valid Registration Certificate" means a registration certificate prior to the passage of
its expiration date. When a person is required to possess or display a valid registration
certificate, the person may present or display the original certificate or a full- sized color
photocopy of the original certificate.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.020 Compliance
Each employer or agent who makes an offer of day labor employment or who hires an
individual to perform day labor employment shall comply with this chapter.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.030 Hiring Day Laborers
A. It is unlawful for a person to make an offer of day labor employment, cause an
offer of day labor employment to be made, or to hire a person to perform day labor employment
unless the person making the offer or causing the offer to be made assures that each of the
following is satisfied:
1. The employer which will hire the day laborer holds a valid registration
certificate.
2. Any person making an offer of day labor employment shall physically
possess a valid registration certificate and be listed on it as either the employer or an authorized
agent.
3. At the time an offer of day labor employment is made, a valid registration
certificate shall be attached to the passenger side window of any vehicle to be used to transport
a day laborer from an uncontrolled location to a work site. The certificate shall remain posted
until all day laborers offered employment at a particular location have entered the vehicle. The
certificate shall be removed from the window prior to commencing operation of the vehicle.
4. Any person making an offer of day labor employment shall provide the
day laborer with a complete and executed term sheet immediately following the day laborer's
acceptance of day labor employment and prior to operation of the vehicle transporting the day
laborer.
5. 90 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. When an offer of day labor employment is made by an agent, the agent is
deemed to have made the offer and the employer is deemed to have caused the offer to be
made. Both the agent and the employer are independently responsible to assure compliance
with this section. In addition, for purposes of this section, an offer is deemed to have been
made by an agent or employer if the agent or employer agrees to hire a person as a day laborer
after that person approaches the agent or employer regarding the availability of day labor
employment.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.040 Registration Certificates; Application and Issuance
Registration certificates shall be processed and issued in accordance with this section.
A. An application shall include the following information and shall be presented with
a government- issued photo identification establishing the applicant' s identity:
1. The employer's name, address, and telephone number.
2 The names and addresses of all persons authorized to act as the
employer's agents for purposes of making offers of day labor employment.
3. Such information as the responsible department deems necessary to
determine whether or not the employer requires a City business license.
4. Such other information, if any, as deemed relevant by the responsible
department.
B. A complete application shall include an acknowledgment that the employer has
received the following informational documents:
1. A document describing employer obligations under Vista Municipal Code,
Chapter 5. 04, Business Licenses.
2. A publication prepared by United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services describing employment verification requirements and legalized status requirements
imposed on employers by the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
3. A copy of an Employment Eligibility Verification Form ( Form I- 9) that
employers must use in order to comply with the Act.
4. A publication prepared by United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services describing the monetary and criminal penalties for employers who violate the Act.
5. A publication describing the requirements of the California Workers
Compensation law.
6. A publication describing the requirements of the California Labor Code.
7. In response to legislative changes, the responsible department may
choose to select documents to distribute to employers which differ from those set forth in this
subsection in order to more effectively advise employers of applicable and relevant laws.
C. The application and acknowledgment shall be executed under the penalty of
perjury.
D. The employer shall execute a written commitment to update a registration
certificate within five days of the date that information in a registration certificate becomes
inaccurate or incomplete.
E. Within two business days of receiving a complete registration, the responsible
department shall issue a registration certificate. The certificate shall be mailed to the
employer's business address or, at the employer's request, made available for pick- up at the
offices of the responsible department.
F. The registration certificate shall set forth on its face: ( 1) the employer's name,
address and telephone number; ( 2) the name and address of all authorized agents; ( 3) the
effective date for the certificate; ( 4) the expiration date for the certificate; ( 5) the signature of a
representative of the responsible department; (6) an individual certificate number for each
5. 90 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
certificate; and ( 7) such other useful information or identifying features as shall be required by
the responsible department in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
G. No fee shall be charged for processing the application, application for renewal,
application update, or registration decal unless the City Council first approves the fee by
resolution. A fee shall not exceed the cost of processing the application.
H. Each application and registration certificate shall constitute a public record that
will be available for inspection upon request by any interested party.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.050 Registration Certificates; Renewals
Renewals of valid registration certificates shall be processed and issued in accordance
with this section.
A. The employer shall be responsible for submitting a complete application to renew
a registration certificate at least 30 days prior to the expiration date for that certificate.
B. The application for renewal shall require the same information, employer
acknowledgments, and verifications as were required for the original application.
C. If the responsible department receives a complete and timely application for
renewal, the department shall mail the employer a renewed registration certificate at least five
days prior to the expiration date set forth in the prior certificate.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.060 Registration Certificate; Updates
An employer shall process an application to update a registration certificate before the
certificate becomes incomplete or inaccurate, or if that is not possible, promptly after learning
that the registration certificate is incomplete or inaccurate. Requests for updated registration
certificates shall be processed within five business days of receipt of a complete application.
Any application to update a certificate shall be executed under the penalty of perjury.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.070 Maintenance, Inspection and Display of Records
A. Employers and agents shall maintain records and make records available as
required by this section.
1. An employer or agent receiving a request to examine the employer's
registration certificate shall make the certificate available for inspection upon demand by:
a. Any person considering an offer of day labor employment.
b. Any person that has performed day labor employment for the
employer within the last two years.
C. Any employee, officer, or agent of the City, including, without
limitation, deputies of the County Sheriff.
d. Any person with law enforcement or regulatory monitoring
functions employed by or behalf of a state or federal agency.
2. An employer or agent receiving a request to examine a term sheet for a
person hired as a day laborer shall, upon demand, make the certificate available for inspection
by:
a. The day laborer or any person authorized by the day laborer to
examine the record.
b. Any employee, official or agent of the City, a state agency, or a
federal agency authorized by law to examine the record.
5. 90 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
3. As required by law, each employer and agent shall make available
records to federal, state, and local agencies and their employees or representatives.
4. Any person authorized to examine a record pursuant to this section may
request the employer to make a copy of that record or records at a cost of 25 cents a page or
such other higher amount as may be approved by the responsible department in a written policy
or regulation.
5. Each employer shall maintain copies of all term sheets for a period of
three years or such longer period as may otherwise be required by law.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.080 Responsible Department
A. The responsible department for administering and implementing this chapter
shall be the Finance Department or such other department as the City Manager may designate
through a written policy.
B. The responsible department shall have the authority and powers set forth in this
chapter, including the authority to:
1. Prepare all application forms, instructions and associated materials for
registration certificates, certificate renewals, certificate updates, term sheets, and similar
documents.
2. Process all applications and take other actions consistent with this
chapter.
3. Prepare rules and regulations for purposes of implementing this chapter.
The responsible department, in its discretion, may establish rules and regulations to require
persons to display a City- issued registration decal rather than displaying a valid registration
certificate as a means to satisfy the requirements of Subsection A.3 of Section 5. 90. 030.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90.090 Limitation
This chapter only applies when a person receives or accepts an offer of day labor
employment made within the territorial boundaries of the City of Vista. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to impose a mandatory duty or other obligation on any employee, officer, or agent of
the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
Section 5. 90. 100 Enforcement and Penalties
The City Attorney, County Sheriff and deputies, Code Compliance Officer and their
deputies have the authority to enforce the provisions of this ordinance. Violations of any
provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil administrative citation or a civil action
including an action for injunctive relief. Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment not exceeding six months or by fine not exceeding
1, 000 or by both fine and imprisonment.
Ord. No. 2006- 9, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 06)
5. 90 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5.92
Bargain Basement Stores
Sections:
5. 92.010 Definitions
5. 92.020 License Requirement
5. 92.030 Application
5. 92.040 Decision
5. 92.050 Appeal
5. 92.060 License Revocation
5. 92.070 Time Limits; Limitation of Rights
5. 92.080 Regulations
Section 5. 92.010 Definitions
The following terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the following meanings:
Bargain Basement Store," shall mean: any for- profit or non- profit store ( including any
establishment, operation or enterprise) with one or more of the following characteristics: ( 1) a
majority of the store' s merchandise is offered for sale at a price equal to or below $ 5. 00; ( 2)
merchandise priced at or below $ 5. 00 occupies at least one half of the store' s floor area which
is devoted to retail sales; ( 3) used items represent a majority of the merchandise offered for
sale in the store; or (4) used merchandise occupies at least one half of the floor area in the store
devoted to retail sales.
The definition of bargain basement store excludes: ( i) bona fide antique stores; (ii)
consignment stores; ( iii) stores which primarily engage in the sale of used books, periodicals,
videos, or DVDs; ( iv) stores specializing in the sale of highly collectible items such as used
coins, stamps, baseball cards, and other similar collectibles; and ( v) a store, where, the majority
of the items sold ( measured by receipts or number of items sold) consist of food and/ or
beverage items.
Director" means the Director of Finance, or such other person as the City Manager
may designate.
Owner" means any person or entity with a direct or indirect legal or beneficial interest
in the bargain basement store equal to or exceeding ten percent.
Redevelopment Project Area" or " Project Area" shall mean the Redevelopment
Project Area for the Vista Redevelopment Project as established by Ordinance No. 87- 25 of the
City of Vista.
Used Merchandise" shall mean all forms of used items, including ( without limitation)
items that were formerly used, but have been repaired, refurbished, and/ or repackaged.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007- 21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007- 24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
Section 5. 92.020 License Requirement
A. Except as provided in Paragraph B, it shall be unlawful for a bargain basement
store to operate within the Redevelopment Project Area for the Vista Redevelopment Project,
unless a license is first obtained pursuant to this chapter.
B. A license shall not be required for any bargain basement store operating in the
Redevelopment Project Area as of the effective date of this chapter, provided that the bargain
basement store does not expand, relocate, or intensify its operations.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007-21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007-24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
5. 92 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 92.030 Application
A. An applicant for a bargain basement store shall complete an application using a
form prepared by the Director and pay such fee for processing the application as may be set by
the City Council.
B. An application shall provide the following information, along with such additional
information as may reasonably be required by the Director, as part of the application:
1. A description of the types of merchandise to be sold.
2. A description of the operating plan and business plan for the store.
3. If used merchandise is to be sold in amounts that qualify the store as a
bargain basement store, the applicant shall list, for each owner, all convictions within five years
of the date of the application ( anywhere in the United States) for dealing in stolen merchandise,
theft, or any similar offense.
4. If used merchandise is to be sold in amounts that qualify the store as a
bargain basement store, the applicant shall list store manager and all convictions ( anywhere in
the United States) within five years of the date of the application for dealing in stolen
merchandise, theft, or any similar offense.
5. Information on whether the bargain basement store will promote the
health, safety and welfare of the community, with particular emphasis on whether the bargain
basement store will advance or inhibit the goals of the Vista Redevelopment Plan.
C. The applicant, as part of its application, may present such additional evidence
and materials that the applicant determines will support its application or otherwise be useful to
the City.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007- 21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007- 24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
Section 5. 92.040 Decision
A. The application shall be reviewed by the Director who may approve, conditionally
approve or deny the application.
B. The application shall be denied if:
1. The application includes a material misrepresentation or omission of fact.
2. If the applicant proposes to sell used merchandise in amounts that qualify
the store as a bargain basement store, and owner or a listed manager, within five years of the
date of the application, has a conviction ( anywhere in the United States) for dealing in stolen
merchandise, theft, or any similar offense.
3. The Director is unable to make one of the following findings:
a. The bargain basement store, as proposed, will significantly
contribute to achieving the goals set forth in the Vista Redevelopment Plan.
b. Although the bargain basement store may not significantly
contribute to achieving the goals set forth in the Vista Redevelopment Plan, it will: ( i) provide
substantial community benefits which are largely unmet; and ( ii) those benefits outweigh any
adverse impact on the City, its goals, and/ or the goals to be advanced through the
Redevelopment Plan.
C. Within 30 days of receiving a complete application, the Director shall render a
decision in writing which shall be conveyed to the applicant at the address provided in the
application. If a license is issued, it shall include any conditions reasonably required by the
Director. If a license is denied, the grounds for denial shall be communicated to the applicant.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007- 21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007- 24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
5. 92 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 92.050 Appeal
A. Within ten days of the date of a written decision of the Director, any interested
party may file an appeal with the City Clerk. The appeal shall set forth the basis for the appeal,
and include payment of any appeal processing fee set by the City Council.
B. A hearing to consider the appeal shall be set and interested parties may submit
evidence in support or opposition to the appeal. The appeal shall be considered by the City
Council de novo using the review criteria set forth in Section 5. 92. 040.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007- 21, Enacted, 10/ 30/07; Ord. No. 2007-24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
Section 5. 92.060 License Revocation
A. A license may be revoked if ( 1) the application for the initial license included a
material misrepresentation or omission of fact; ( 2) the business or operations plan presented in
the initial application has changed in material respects to adversely affect the City, the
community, or the goals set forth in the Redevelopment Plan; or ( 3) the owner or a manager of
the store is convicted of trafficking in stolen goods, theft, or similar offense subsequent to the
issuance of the license.
B. If the Director initiates a license revocation proceeding, the Director shall advise
the licensee in writing of the grounds for the possible revocation and set a hearing to consider
the license revocation no earlier than 30 days from the date of the notice.
C. The revocation hearing shall use such rules as may be set by the City Manager
or the City Manager's designee for purposes of assuring a fair hearing. The hearing on the
revocation shall be conducted by the City Manager or the City Manager' s designee, who shall
produce a written decision. Unless it is determined that oral testimony and argument is required
to satisfy due process, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee may make a decision
based solely on the written record.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007- 21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007- 24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
Section 5. 92.070 Time Limits; Limitation of Rights
A license issued under this chapter shall not convey any vested rights to operate at a
particular location. A licensee shall be obligated to abide by all current and future zoning
requirements, including zoning requirements that may require the licensee to relocate or
terminate operations. Unless terminated earlier, the license shall terminate automatically on its
fifth anniversary date. Any subsequent reapplication shall be considered de novo, with no
vested right accruing to the former licensee.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007-21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007-24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
Section 5. 92.080 Regulations
The City Manager may adopt regulations or policies for the implementation and
administration of this chapter, provided that the regulation or policies are not in conflict with the
chapter.
Urgency Ord. No. 2007-21, Enacted, 10/ 30/ 07; Ord. No. 2007-24, Enacted, 11/ 27/ 07)
5. 92 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 94
Medical Cannabis Dispensaries
Sections:
5. 94.010 Purpose and Intent
5. 94.020 Operation Prohibited Without Permit
5. 94.030 Definitions
5. 94.040 Registration Required and Effect Thereof
5. 94.050 Applications for Medical Cannabis Dispensary Business License
5. 94.060 Registration Application Form, Manner, Timing, and Priority Order
5. 94.070 Issuance and Renewal of Registration
5. 94.080 General Operating Standards and Restrictions
5. 94.090 Location Restrictions and Limitations
5. 94. 100 Transferability of Medial Cannabis Business License and Certificate of
Occupancy
5. 94. 110 Violations and Penalties
5. 94. 120 Appeals
5. 94. 130 Prohibited Operations and Nonconforming Use
5. 94. 140 Taxes
5. 94. 143 Tax Reporting, Remittance, Penalization, and Administration Rules
5. 94. 147 Coordination of Tax Provisions of Chapters 5. 94 and 7. 10
5. 94. 150 Severability
5. 94. 160 Consistency with Statewide Regulation of Cannabis
5. 94. 170 Amendments and Administration
Section 5. 94.010 Purpose and Intent
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a comprehensive set of regulations with
attendant regulatory permits applicable to the operation of medical cannabis dispensaries. The
regulations are intended to ensure such operations are consistent with the overall health,
welfare and safety of the city and its populace, and that such operations are in compliance with
California' s Compassionate Use Act of 1996 as well as California's Medical Marijuana Program
Act of 2003. Furthermore, the purpose of this chapter is to establish a framework for regulation
consistent with the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act of 2015 as drafted, and also
any future regulations contemplated by the Bureau of Medical Marijuana, Department of
Consumer Affairs, the Department of Health and Safety, the Department of Agriculture, or any
other governmental agency in its promulgation of rules and laws pertaining to commercial
cannabis activities throughout the State of California.
This chapter is not intended to permit activities that are otherwise illegal under state or
local law. This chapter is not intended to conflict with federal or state law.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.020 Operation Prohibited Without Permit
It shall be unlawful to own, establish, operate, use, or permit the establishment or
operation of a medical cannabis dispensary, or to participate as an employee, contractor, agent,
volunteer, or in any manner or capacity other than as provided in this chapter. The general
prohibition contained in this section shall include renting, leasing, or otherwise permitting a
medical cannabis business to occupy or use a location, vehicle, or other mode of transportation.
5. 94 ( 1) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.030 Definitions
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter unless the context clearly denotes
otherwise:
Applicant" means a person or legal entity who is required to file an application for a
license under this chapter.
Attorney General Guidelines" shall refer to the California Attorney General
Guidelines for the Security and Non- diversion of Marijuana Grown for Medical Use, issued by
the Attorney General' s Office in August 2008, as amended from time to time, which sets
regulations intended to ensure the security and non- diversion of Cannabis grown for medical
use by qualified patients or primary caregivers.
Business Licensing Division" as used in this Chapter is defined to mean the
department within the City that reviews, issues, and manages business licenses.
Cannabis Business" or " Commercial Cannabis Business" shall have the meaning
assigned to the term " commercial cannabis activity" by Section 26001 of the Title XVI of the
California Code of Regulations.
Cannabis Dispensing Room" means the location in a medical cannabis dispensary
where medical cannabis is stored and dispensed to qualified patients as opposed to a lobby
area within the dispensary.
City" means the city of Vista.
Collectives" and " Cooperatives" when referring to medical cannabis organizations,
both mean associations of qualified patients or primary care givers who associate, as an
incorporated or unincorporated association, to collectively or cooperatively cultivate, process,
and distribute medical cannabis for use exclusively by their registered members, in strict
accordance with California Health and Safety Code sections 11362. 5 and 11362. 7 et seq.
Concentrated Cannabis" shall have the same definition as given such term in
California Health and Safety Code  11006.5, as may be amended, and which defines
Concentrated Cannabis" as the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from
Cannabis.
Edible" shall have the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code Section
113781, until such time that MMRSA or the Department of Public Health sets forth a new
definition.
Gross Sales" shall have the same meaning as is given to the term " Gross Receipts"
pursuant to Section 7. 10.020 of the Vista Municipal Code.
Identification card" has the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code
section 11362. 7.
Location" means any parcel of land, whether vacant or occupied by a building, group
of buildings, or accessory buildings, and includes the buildings, structures, yards, open spaces,
lot width, and lot area.
Live scan" means a system for inkless electronic fingerprinting and the automated
background check developed by the California Department of Justice ( DOJ) which involves
digitizing fingerprints and electronically transmitting the fingerprint image data along with
personal descriptor information to computers at the DOJ for completion of a criminal record
check; or such other comparable inkless electronic fingerprinting and automated background
check process as determined by the city council.
Marijuana" has the same definition as set forth in the Health and Safety Code section
11018, and includes cannabis.
5. 94 ( 2) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Medical Cannabis" means marijuana or cannabis used for medical purposes in
accordance with the Compassionate Use Act ( Health and Safety Code section 11362. 5) and the
Medical Marijuana Program Act ( Health and Safety Code sections 11362. 7 et seq.).
Qualified member" means either a qualified patient, a person with an identification
card, or a primary caregiver who has joined the collective.
Notice of Completed Registration" means a written notice to an applicant for
collective or cooperative registration issued by the City as a ministerial duty indicating that the
application is complete and accurate.
Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, whether organized as a nonprofit or for- profit entity, and includes
the plural as well as the singular number.
Person or entity engaged in the operation of a commercial cannabis business"
means a registered business commencing, conducting, operating, or managing a cannabis
business and the exercise of corporate or franchise powers, whether done as owner, or by
means of an officer, agent, manager, employee, or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed
location in the City or coming into the City from an outside location to engage in such activities.
A person shall be deemed engaged in business within the City if:
1. Such person or person' s employee maintains a fixed place of business within
the City for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;
2. Such person or person' s employee owns or leases real property within the City
for business purposes;
3. Such person or person' s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of business;
4. Such person or person' s employee regularly conducts solicitation of business
within the City; and
5. Such person or person' s employee performs work or renders services in the
City.
The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of "engaged in
business."
Person with an identification card" has the same definition as set forth in Health and
Safety Code section 11362. 7, and as may be amended, and which provides that " Person with
an identification card" means an individual who is a qualified patient who has applied for and
received a valid identification card pursuant to this article [ being Article 2. 5 of Chapter 6 of
Division 10 of the Health and Safety Code].
Physician' s referral" means a written recommendation for a patient from a licensed
medical doctor indicating that Cannabis would be a beneficial treatment for a serious medical
condition of the patient.
Qualified Patient" has the same definition as set forth in Health and Safety Code
section 11362. 7( f).
Reasonable Compensation" means compensation commensurate with wages and
benefits paid to officers and employees of other not- for- profit organizations who have similar job
descriptions and duties, required level of education and experience, prior individual earnings
history, and number of hours worked, including without limitation, the proportionate cost of
cultivation, materials, time, experience, and other expenditures reasonably related to the
cultivation, transportation, treatment, and storage of medical Cannabis.
Registered business" means a person which is included on a registration list
maintained by the City in accordance with Chapter 5. 94 of the Vista Municipal Code, until such
time that the registration expires.
Registration list" means the list of registered medical cannabis collective and
cooperative maintained by the City.
5. 94 ( 3) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
School" means any pre- existing public or private school with students in any grade K-
12.
Tax administrator" means the Director of Finance of the City of Vista, the Director of
Finance' s designee(s), or any other City officer charged with the administration of the provisions
of this Chapter.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18; Ord. No. 19- 09, Amended, 6/ 25/ 19)
Section 5. 94.040 Registration Required and Effect Thereof
Nothing in this Article shall be construed to grant any registrant any status or right other
than the right to be identified on the City' s registration list, and to receive a Notice of Completed
Registration, a Certificate of Occupancy, and a gross receipts business license, and the right to
assert an affirmative defense to administrative, civil, and criminal enforcement of the City of
Vista Municipal Code based on conduct in compliance with this Article and with California law.
A duly registered medical cannabis business, its members, officers, directors, managers,
employees, and volunteers, shall not be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions
based on the City of Vista Municipal Code solely on the basis of conduct in compliance with this
Article and with California law.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.050 Applications for Medical Cannabis Dispensary Business License
A. The owner, operator, or agent of a proposed medical cannabis business or
dispensary shall file an application with the City or its designee upon a form provided by the City
and shall pay a filing fee as established by resolution adopted by the City Council as amended
from time to time. Additionally, Applicants shall be required to deposit into a trust account held
by the City of Vista, the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($ 100, 000. 00), as an initial
showing of the resources available to Applicant for any fees, improvements to the
building/ structure, or any other costs associated with the application process, including fees
incurred by the City in its evaluation of the application.
B. Each application for a medical cannabis business or dispensary business license
shall be submitted to, and as directed by the City on forms of his or her devising, in the name of
each applicant for registration, and shall be signed by each applicant or an authorized agent
thereof. The application shall include the following information:
1. A written request to be registered and placed on the medical cannabis
business registration list.
2. The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the applicant.
3. The business name and street address for which registration is sought, as
well as any other names under which the business may operate.
4. Address of the location where the medical cannabis business will be
located.
5. Proof that the applicant owns or currently leases the property. If the
property is being leased, rented or purchased under contract, a copy of such contract or fully
executed lease must be submitted with the application.
6. If the property is being rented or leased, the applicant must submit a
signed and notarized authorization acknowledging that the current owner of the property is
aware of the intended use as a medical cannabis business and consents to such use.
7. A site plan describing the property with fully dimensioned interior and
exterior floor plans including: electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and disabled access compliance
pursuant to Title 24 of the State of California Code of Regulations and the Americans with
Disabilities Act. Any improvements or alterations to the property that require building permits
must be submitted to the Building and Safety Division separately for review/approval.
5. 94 (4) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
8. Exterior photographs of the entrance(s), exit( s), street frontage( s),
parking, front and rear side(s) of the property.
9. Photographs depicting the entire interior of the proposed property.
10. If the medical cannabis business/ collective is a non- profit corporation, a
certified copy of the Collective' s Secretary of State Articles of Incorporation, Certificate( s) of
Amendment, Statement(s) of Information.
11. If the medical cannabis business or collective is an unincorporated
association, a copy of the Articles of Association must be provided.
12. A one- page description of the business and its plans for security and nondiversion
of medical cannabis.
13. A copy of the Medical Cannabis operating standards with a statement
dated and signed by the responsible party on- site stating under the penalty of perjury, that they
read, understand, and shall ensure compliance with the aforementioned operating standards.
14. Applicant( s) must not have suffered any felony drug convictions within the
last 4 years. This may be evidenced by a " live- scan" completed within 60 days of the filing of the
application showing no felony drug convictions within the last 4 years.
15. Documentation that the business is located in a zone allowed by this
Chapter and documentation indicating that the business conforms with the appropriate buffer
zones described in this Chapter.
16. Applicant's business must have been in existence for a minimum of six
6) contiguous months prior to the issuance of a business license under this Article.
17. Applicant must have a current Board of Equalization Seller' s Permit that
has been in existence for a minimum of six ( 6) contiguous months prior to the issuance of a
business license under this Article.
18. A security plan including the following measures:
a. Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good
condition, and used in an on- going manner with at least 30 days of digitally recorded
documentation.
b. The business space shall be alarmed with a centrally monitored
fire and burglar alarm system, and monitored by an alarm company.
C. Entrance to the dispensing area or " medication room" and any
storage areas shall be locked at all times, and under the control of employees.
d. Interior Lighting. The premises within which the medical cannabis
business is operated shall be equipped with and, at all times during which is open to the public
or any portion thereof, shall remain illuminated with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which members of the public or portions thereof are
permitted access with an illumination of not less than two foot-candles as measured at the floor
level.
e. Exterior Lighting. The exterior of the premises upon which the
medical cannabis business is operated shall be equipped with and, at all times between sunset
and sunrise, shall remain illuminated with fixtures of sufficient intensity and number to illuminate
every portion of the property with an illumination level of not less than one foot-candle as
measured at the ground level, including, but not limited to, landscaped areas, parking lots,
driveways, walkways, entry areas, and refuse storage areas.
f. All windows on the building that houses the dispensary shall be
appropriately secured and all cannabis securely stored, and a reliable, commercial alarm
system shall be installed and maintained.
19. A statement in writing by the applicant that he or she certifies under
penalty of perjury that all the information contained in the application is true and correct.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
5. 94 ( 5) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 94.060 Registration Application Form, Manner, Timing, and Priority Order
A. The City shall, within 15 calendar days of the date of the adoption of this Article,
create registration application forms and instructions that strictly require only the information
required pursuant to Sec. 5. 94.50 of this Article, and shall begin accepting applications on a
published date within 30 calendar days of the date of the adoption of this Article.
B. At least seven calendar days prior to the date the City will begin accepting
applications for registration, the City shall publish, on the City's website and once in a daily
newspaper of general circulation, the date, time, and manner on and in which the medical
cannabis businesses must submit registration application forms and the required fee, and shall
make publicly available those forms and instructions at City Hall and on the City's website.
C. Each applicant shall deposit into a trust account held by the City of Vista, the
amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($ 100,000) to be used in the application process and
to ensure the applicant' s ability to pay for various security and compliance measures as
determined by the City throughout the application process.
D. As each applicant submits its registration application and fee pursuant to this
Article, the City shall time-stamp the application with the date and time received. Seven
calendar days after the date the City begins accepting applications, the City shall stop accepting
applications and shall that day establish a priority list that identifies by name, address, date and
time the order in which the applications were received. The City shall rank the applications in
the order in which they are first filed. The City shall process each application according to its
rank. An applicant may only be assigned one place on the priority list, and multiple submissions
will result in immediate disqualification from the registration process.
E. Within seven calendar days of establishing the priority list, the City shall publish
the priority list on the City' s website and once in the local daily newspaper of general circulation.
F. The order set forth in the priority list shall remain in effect until all applicants on
the priority list have either been issued a medical marijuana business license, or have been
determined to not qualify, at which time, should the number of current valid registrations fall
below that established by Sec. 5. 94. 90 of this Article, a new date and time will be set for
submission of the additional applications following the process set forth herein, but not more
frequently than once every 180 days.
G. Following establishment of the priority list, the City shall begin processing, as
ministerial duty, the registration applications for medical cannabis businesses in the order
established by the priority list. The City shall continue processing the applications until the
maximum number of medical cannabis businesses registrations have been issued a Notice of
Completed Registration and placed on the registration list. This processing shall consist of
verification of the information required by Sec. 5. 94. 50 as complete and accurate.
H. No medical cannabis business' rank on the priority list shall be assigned,
transferred, or sold. Any attempt to assign, transfer, or sell a priority ranking shall render the
application null and void. Any person, collective, or cooperative attempting to assign, sell, or
transfer a priority ranking or any person, collective, or cooperative attempting to acquire a
priority ranking outside the provisions set forth herein shall be immediately disqualified from the
registration process for three years.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.070 Issuance and Renewal of Registration
A. Upon receipt of an application for registration, the City shall, as a ministerial duty,
complete the processing and issue a Notice of Completed Registration and place the applicant
on the registration list within 30 calendar days, to be tolled if, and only if, requested by the
applicant to allow processing time unless:
5. 94 ( 6) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
1. The application is incomplete or inaccurate; or
2. The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary for
processing the registration application or has knowingly answered an application question or
request for information falsely; or
3. The application seeks registration for a medical cannabis business that is
located within 1000 feet of a school, as herein defined, or is not located in an allowable zone or
outside the required buffer zones listed in this Article; or
4. The Applicant does not possess a California State Board of Equalization
Seller' s Permit or License to Sell Nursery Stock has been granted for the applicant; or
5. An applicant is a licensed physician actively making patient
recommendations
B. If the City fails to either issue a Notice of Completed Registration or deny the
application for registration in writing stating the reasons for denial, within 30 calendar days of
receipt of the application, the registration shall be deemed complete, the Notice of Completed
Registration deemed issued, and the medical cannabis business deemed to be on the
registration list, and thus deemed eligible for a Certificate of Occupancy and business license as
below.
C. Once all available Notices of Completed Registration are issued or deemed
issued, no applications will be accepted or considered until such time as additional Notices of
Completed Registration are available. When additional Notices of Completed Registration
become available, applications will then be taken and will be considered as provided herein
upon the timely filing of a new application therefrom.
D. Registration shall be valid for two years and an application for renewal must be
filed not later than 30 calendar days prior to the expiration of the registration, but no earlier than
60 calendar days prior to the expiration of the registration. A registration may be renewed every
two years by submitting an application for renewal to the City.
E. Once an applicant has been issued a Completed Registration, the applicant may
not be charged with violation of 5. 94. 020 or 5. 94. 110, unless or until such time that the
application is deemed to have not qualified for a medical cannabis business license.
F. Once issued a Notice of Completed Registration and placed on the registration
list, the collective or business shall be eligible for a Certificate of Occupancy, which shall be
issued upon completion of all standard building and fire inspections, including all parking
requirements as are determined by Section 5. 94.080 of this code. If the Certificate of
Occupancy is not issued, or denied in a writing stating the grounds upon which it is denied, it
shall be denied.
G. Once issued its Certificate of Occupancy, a medical cannabis business shall be
eligible for a business license that shall be issued as a ministerial duty immediately upon
application.
H. The City shall not require a medical cannabis business to obtain any special use
or conditional use permit other than is required in Sec. 5. 94.50 above. This provision is included
to meet the requirements and concerns expressed by the California Court of Appeal in Pack v.
Superior Court ( 2011). City officials will not be required to violate any Federal criminal statute.
No special site plan, variance, or any other permit or certificate other than those specified in this
Ordinance, shall be required by the City and none shall be issued for said collectives,
cooperatives, and businesses. The City shall issue, as a ministerial duty, Notices of Completed
Registration, Certificates of Occupancy, and business licenses to qualified cannabis businesses
in priority order as received and processed.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
5. 94 ( 7) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 94.080 General Operating Standards and Restrictions
A medical cannabis dispensary shall operate in conformance with the following minimum
standards, and such standards shall be deemed to be part of the conditions of approval on the
permit for a medical cannabis business to ensure that its operation is in compliance with
California law, the Attorney General Guidelines, the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety
Act, and the Vista Municipal Code, and to mitigate any potential adverse impacts of the medical
cannabis business on the public health, safety or welfare.
A. Security
1. At least one ( 1) security guard, armed or unarmed, who is licensed by the
State of California shall be present at the location of the medical cannabis business during all
business hours. The security guard shall only be engaged in activities related to providing
security for the medical cannabis business, except on an incidental basis. Each security guard
shall possess a " Security Guard Card" at all times.
2. Security cameras shall be installed and maintained in good condition, and
used in an on- going manner with at least 30 days of digitally recorded documentation.
3. The location of the medical cannabis business shall be alarmed with a
centrally monitored fire and burglar alarm system, and monitored by an alarm company.
B. Records
1. Medical cannabis dispensary shall maintain records reflecting:
a. The full name, address, and telephone number(s) of the owner
and/ or lessee of the property.
b. The full name, address, and telephone number(s) of all
employees.
C. Results of annual live scans of all employees.
d. The state issued identification card number of all members to
whom the medical cannabis business provides medical Cannabis. If a member does not have a
state issued identification card, then the medical cannabis dispensary shall assign the member
a unique identifying number for the use of the medical cannabis business, and maintain a
written copy of the physician' s referral for the member.
e. A copy of the medical cannabis dispensary's commercial general
liability insurance policy and all other insurance policies related to the operation of the medical
cannabis dispensary.
f. Proof of a valid and current permit issued by the city in
accordance with this chapter. Every medical cannabis dispensary shall display at all times
during business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter in a
conspicuous place so that it may be readily seen by all persons entering the location of the
medical cannabis dispensary.
C. Employees
1. A medical cannabis dispensary shall not have any employees, operators,
or volunteers who have suffered a conviction for a felony offense having occurred within the
past four (4) years. This requirement shall be confirmed through the results of a live scan being
conducted annually by the medical cannabis business on all employees, the written results of
such live scans being maintained at the location of the medical cannabis dispensary.
2. All employees must have a current and valid recommendation or
California Issued Medical Marijuana Card.
3. Employee Work Permits.
a. No person shall be employed at, or volunteer at, a medical
cannabis dispensary licensed under this Chapter without receiving a valid medical dispensary
employee work permit issued by the City to such person. An employer may pay the employee
5. 94 ( 8) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
for the time needed to make such application, but no work at the medical cannabis dispensary
shall occur until that application is made and a permit issued.
b. The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by
the City and pursuant to regulations issued by the City Manager pursuant to this Section and
Section 5. 94. 170.
C. Upon applying for a work permit it shall be the prospective
employee's responsibility to immediately complete the Department of Justice Request for Live
Scan Service form provided to the prospective employee by the City and to have the Live Scan
conducted at and by a designated and authorized entity that will report the results to the City of
Vista.
d. Upon receipt of the Live Scan results the City shall approve or
deny the application and so notify the prospective employee and the prospective employer.
e. The medical cannabis dispensary employee permit, if approved,
shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it is granted, and the expiration date.
f The City Manager is authorized to promulgate such regulations as
may be necessary or convenient to implement this Section.
D. Volume
A medical cannabis dispensary may dispense, store or transport medical
Cannabis in aggregate amounts tied to its members' needs. To that end a medical cannabis
dispensary shall ensure compliance with state law limits on amount of dried Cannabis and
amount of Cannabis plants allowed per qualified patients and persons with identification cards
and/ or primary caregivers.
E. No Recommendations On- site
A medical cannabis dispensary shall not have a physician or an attending
physician at the location of the medical cannabis business to evaluate patients or provide a
recommendation for medical Cannabis.
F. Notification
The following signs in measurements of not less than eight ( 8) by ten ( 10) inches
shall be clearly and legibly posted in a conspicuous location inside the medical cannabis
business where they will be visible to members in the normal course of a transaction, stating:
1. Use of medical Cannabis shall be limited to the patient identified on the
doctor' s recommendation. Secondary sale, barter or distribution of medical Cannabis is a crime
and can lead to arrest."
2. Loitering on and around the collective site is prohibited by California
Penal Code  647(e) and patrons must immediately leave the site and not consume medical
Cannabis in the vicinity of the collective or on the property or in the parking lot."
3. Forgery of medical documents is a crime."
4. Patrons may be subject to prosecution under the federal marijuana
laws."
5. Use of medical marijuana may impair a person' s ability to drive a motor
vehicle or operate machinery."
6. Smoking, ingesting or consuming marijuana anywhere on the premises
is strictly prohibited."
7. Minors are prohibited from entering this property unless they are a
qualified patient or a primary caregiver and they are in the presence of their parent or legal
guardian."
8. All Medical Cannabis has been tested by an independent testing agency
for content, mold, pesticides, and other harmful contaminants."
G. No Alcohol
Any Medical cannabis dispensary shall not hold or maintain a license from the
State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control to sell alcoholic beverages, or operate a
5. 94 ( 9) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
business that sells alcoholic beverages on site and there shall be no alcohol consumption on
site.
H. Quality control
In accordance with the provisions set forth in the Medical Marijuana Regulation
and Safety Act, all Medical Marijuana shall be analyzed in representative samples of all strains
that are to be distributed to members of the dispensary. The representative samples shall be
analyzed by an independent laboratory, holding a state license for testing ( if and when such is
available) for harmful pesticides, molds, and other contaminants. Any medical cannabis from
which the representative sample tested positive for a harmful pesticide or other contaminant at a
level that exceeds the local, state or federal regulatory or statutory standards shall be destroyed
forthwith and not dispensed to members or qualified patients.
I. Labeling
1. Any medical cannabis provided to members shall be properly labeled.
2. A distinct and clearly legible label must be affixed onto all medical
cannabis items provided by a medical cannabis business which states:
a. This item contains medical cannabis.
b. Warning that the item is a medication and not a food.
C. Warning that the item is to be kept away from children
d. Warning if nuts or other known allergens are used.
e. Date of manufacture.
f. Any other or further labeling as may be made a requirement by
the Bureau of Medical Marijuana, Department of Health and Safety, or any other State or
Federal agency.
3. Any edible cannabis product that is made to resemble a typical food
product ( i. e. brownie, cake) must be in a properly labeled opaque ( non see-through) package
before it leaves the medical cannabis business.
J. Edibles
All medical cannabis edibles shall comply with the California Sherman Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Law, as codified in section 109875, et seq. of Part 5 of Division 104 of the
Health and Safety Code, and as amended from time to time. Further minimum requirements for
all medical cannabis edibles include:
1. No edible medical marijuana products requiring refrigeration or hot
holding shall be manufactured for sale or distribution at a medical marijuana business, due to
the potential for food- borne illness. Baked medicinal products ( i. e. brownies, bars, cookies,
cakes), tinctures and other non- refrigerated type items are acceptable for manufacture and sale
at a medical cannabis business.
2. Any such other or further requirements as propagated by the Bureau of
Medical Marijuana or the Department of Public Health.
K. Signage
1. Signs on the premises shall not obstruct the entrance or the video
surveillance system. The size, location, and design of any signage must conform to the sign
provisions in the Vista Municipal Code.
2. Business identification signage shall comply with the appropriate sign
requirements with the applicable zoning district.
L. Employee Training
All employees of a medical cannabis business shall receive appropriate training
for their intended duties to ensure understanding of rules and procedures regarding maintaining
compliance by the operation with State and local law.
M. Supply
5. 94 ( 10) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Each Medical Marijuana Dispensary shall acquire its medical marijuana from a
state and locally licensed distributor, once the same is available. If no such licensed distributor
exists, the Dispensary shall acquire its medical marijuana from its members.
N. Operating Hours for Medical Marijuana Dispensary
The maximum hours of operation for a medical marijuana dispensary shall be
daily from 9: 00 a. m. to 10: 00 p. m.
O. Use Restrictions
Smoking, ingesting or consuming marijuana by customers at the location of the
medical cannabis dispensary is prohibited.
P. No Minors
No one under 18 years of age shall be permitted to enter establishment, unless
such person is a qualified patient and is accompanied by his or her Primary Caregiver, licensed
Attending Physician, parent(s) or documented legal guardian.
Q. Odors
A medical cannabis dispensary shall have an air treatment system that ensures
offsite odors shall not result from its operations. This requirement at a minimum means that the
medical cannabis dispensary shall be designed to provide sufficient odor absorbing ventilation
and exhaust systems so that any odor generated inside the location of the medical cannabis
dispensary is not detected outside the building, on adjacent properties or public rights- of-way, or
within any other unit located within the same building as the medical cannabis business, if the
use only occupies a portion of a building.
R. Insurance
A medical cannabis dispensary shall carry with minimal coverage provided of
comprehensive commercial general liability insurance and comprehensive automotive liability
insurance ( if automobiles are used by the medical cannabis business for any purpose)
protecting the medical cannabis business in an amount of not less than one million dollars
1, 000, 000. 00) per occurrence, combined single limit, including bodily injury and property
damage and not less than one million dollars ($ 1, 000, 000. 00) aggregate for each personal
injury liability, products liability and each accident.
S. Site management
The medical cannabis dispensary permit holder shall make available to members
who are dispensed medical marijuana a list of the rules and regulations governing medical
marijuana use and consumption within the city and recommendations on sensible medical
marijuana etiquette.
T. Parking
Each medical cannabis dispensary shall have at least one ( 1) dedicated parking
space for every 1, 000 square feet of the permitted building. The medical cannabis dispensary
must also have shared access to at least one ( 1) handicap accessible parking space.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18; Ord. No. 2019- 13, Amended, 10/ 22/ 19)
Section 5. 94.090 Location Restrictions and Limitations
A. The maximum number of medical cannabis businesses shall be limited to one
medical cannabis business per 10, 000 ( or fraction thereof) residents of the City, as determined
by the last Federal Census or as determined by the latest population estimate by the
Department of Finance of the State of California whichever is higher and in no case less than
six ( 6) shall be registered by the City if there are that many eligible applicants. The City Council
may increase, but not decrease, the number of medical cannabis businesses registered in the
City under the formula above which shall be the maximum number registered unless raised by
the City Council.
5. 94 ( 11) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Medical cannabis businesses may only be located in a C- 1 zone ( Commercial),
C- 2 zone ( Commercial), C- 3 zone ( Commercial), RLI zone ( Research Light Industrial), M U
Zone ( Mixed Use), I- P ( Industrial Park), or M- 1 zone ( Light Manufacturing) as designated of the
Vista Municipal Code. Medical cannabis businesses are explicitly prohibited in the residential
zones: R- 1, R- 1- B, and R- M.
C. Medical cannabis businesses are prohibited within six hundred ( 600') feet of a
pre- existing public or private K- 12 school pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section
11362. 768.
D. Medical cannabis businesses are prohibited within five hundred ( 500') feet of any
other permitted medical cannabis dispensary. The distance is measured from front door to front
door, without regard to intervening structures.
E. Medical cannabis businesses are prohibited from operating out of a residence or
dwelling as defined by Section 18. 02.270 of this Code.
F. Unless otherwise provided, all distances specified in this Section shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the front door of the
medical cannabis business to the nearest property line of those uses described herein.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.100 Transferability of Medial Cannabis Business License and Certificate
of Occupancy
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Vista Municipal Code, a medical cannabis
business license and/ or certificate of occupancy is transferable only if transferee successfully
completes all of the requirements that a new applicant would otherwise need to meet.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.110 Violations and Penalties
Any person, whether as principal, employee, agent, partner, City, officer, stockholder, or
trustee, or otherwise, violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor or Infraction pursuant to Section 1. 16. 010 of this Code.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.120 Appeals
Any decision regarding approval, conditional approval, denial, suspension or revocation
may be appealed to the city council in accordance with the provisions of the Vista Municipal
Code.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.130 Prohibited Operations and Nonconforming Use
All medical cannabis businesses in violation of Health and Safety Code Section 11362. 7
et seq. and 11362. 5 et seq., this chapter, or any other applicable State law are expressly
prohibited. It is unlawful for any medical cannabis dispensary in the city, or any agent, employee
or representative of such medical cannabis business, to permit any breach of peace therein or
any disturbance of public order or decorum by any tumultuous, riotous or disorderly conduct on
the premises of the medical cannabis business, or to violate any State law, or this chapter.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
5. 94 ( 12) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 94. 140 Taxes
A. Imposition of Tax
Every person or entity engaged in the operation of a commercial cannabis
business, regardless of where such person or entity has been issued a license by the City, shall
pay to the City an amount equal to seven percent ( 7%) of all gross sales as a special use tax.
The revenue generated from the taxation of Medical Marijuana Businesses shall be placed in a
City's general fund.
B. Payment Obligation
All taxpayers subject to this Chapter must pay the full tax imposed by this
Chapter regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other reduction set forth elsewhere in
this Code, except as required by California or Federal Law. Failure to pay the tax shall subject
the taxpayer to penalties, interest charges, and other assessments as the City may establish
from time to time. No provision in this Code shall lower the tax rate or reduce the amount of
taxes paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the reduction applies.
C. City Council Authorization to Adjust Tax Rates
The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this Chapter at a lower rate
and may establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions as it deems proper from time to
time. The City Council may impose penalties, interest charges, or other assessments for the
failure of a taxpayer to pay the tax in a timely manner, as otherwise allowed by the Charter and
California Law. No action by the City Council under this Section shall prevent it from later
increasing or decreasing the tax, or imposing or removing any exemption, incentive, or
reduction and restoring the maximum or minimum tax specified in this Chapter.
D. Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Activity
The payment of the tax required pursuant to this Chapter shall not, under any
circumstance, be construed as authorized the conduct or continuance of any illegal or
unpermitted business. Nothing in this Chapter implies or authorizes that any activity connected
with the sale, distribution, or possession of cannabis is legal unless otherwise authorized and
allowed in strict compliance with the provisions of this Code, the Medical Marijuana Program
Act, and the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.143 Tax Reporting, Remittance, Penalization, and Administration Rules
A. Purpose
Section 5. 94. 140. 0 authorizes the City Council to adopt ordinances relating to
the reporting, collection, auditing, interest assessment, penalties and other matters pertaining to
taxes owed or delinquent pursuant to this Chapter. In adopting this section, the City Council
intends to create a consistent program for the City' s administration of all cannabis taxes owing
to Vista under this Chapter and Chapter 7. 10 as allowed by applicable law.
B. Reporting
All taxes owed pursuant to Chapter 5. 94 shall be reported and remitted to the
City in accordance with Section 7. 10. 030 of the Vista Municipal Code.
C. Penalties and Interest
If any person fails or refuses to pay taxes owed under this Chapter on or before
the date on which the taxes are due, penalties and interest shall be imposed in the amounts and
manner provided in Section 7. 10. 050 of the Vista Municipal Code.
D. Exemptions
Taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not be collected with respect to the
personal cultivations or other personal use of cannabis to the limited extent described in Section
7. 10. 065 of the Vista Municipal Code.
5. 94 ( 13) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Administration of Tax
It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to collect the taxes, penalties, fees,
and perform the duties required by this Chapter.
F. Constitutionality and Legality
The taxes owed pursuant to this Chapter shall be applied in a manner consistent
with the rules contained in Section 7. 10. 085 of the Vista Municipal Code.
G. Audit and Examinations
For purposes of conducting audits and examinations with respect to taxes owed
pursuant to this Chapter or property, materials, information, operations or items relating to this
Chapter, the City, City Manager, City Attorney and Tax Collector shall have those powers
enumerated in Section 7. 10. 090.A and C of the Vista Municipal Code.
H. Records Retention
Every person liable for the collection and payment of any tax owed pursuant to
this Chapter shall have a duty to keep and preserve those records described in Section
7. 10. 090. B for the periods prescribed therein.
Ord. No. 19- 09, Added, 6/ 25/ 19)
Section 5. 94.147 Coordination of Tax Provisions of Chapters 5. 94 and 7. 10
A. Any person which is a registered business pursuant to Chapter 5. 94 shall pay
taxes on all gross receipts of the business in accordance with Chapter 5. 94 of the Vista
Municipal Code and all regulations adopted pursuant to that Chapter.
B. Except for registered businesses paying taxes on gross receipts pursuant to
Chapter 5. 94, a person engaged in the operation of a commercial cannabis business shall pay
taxes in accordance with Chapter 7. 10 of the Vista Municipal Code and all regulations adopted
pursuant to that Chapter.
C. Where a person in successive periods qualified as both a registered business
and an unregistered business when operating as a cannabis business, the tax provisions of
Chapter 5. 94 shall be applied to the person during the periods it was a registered business, and
the tax provisions of Chapter 7. 10 shall be applied at the times it was not a registered business.
However, if a court determines that a successive application of the tax provisions is improper
and a simultaneous application must occur, the simultaneous application shall occur in a
manner to assure that no gross receipts or gross revenues escape lawful taxation.
Ord. No. 19- 09, Added, 6/ 25/ 19)
Section 5. 94.150 Severability
If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion of this
initiative is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance. The People of the City of Vista hereby declare that they would have adopted this
initiative and each section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or portion
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions,
sentences, clauses, phrases, words, or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 5. 94.160 Consistency with Statewide Regulation of Cannabis
This chapter shall be read consistent with any statewide regulation of medical marijuana
that is promulgated by the California legislature or by voter approval in the future. Specifically,
this Chapter shall be read consistent with the Medical Marijuana Regulation and Safety Act.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
5. 94 ( 14) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 94. 170 Amendments and Administration
A. This Chapter was submitted to the voters for approval. Any amendment to
5. 94. 040 to increase the Tax rate expressly provided in such section shall not be effective
unless and until such amendment is approved by the voters. The voters may authorize the City
Council to amend, modify, change, or revise any other provisions of this Chapter as the City
Council deems to be in the best interests of the City.
B. The City Manager or any designee thereof shall promulgate any other rules,
regulations, and procedures necessary and consistent with this Chapter in order to implement
and administer the intent of this Chapter, including any rules and regulations necessary to
ensure the efficient and timely collection of the tax imposed by this Chapter.
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
5. 94 ( 15) Vista 11/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 96
Licensing of Cannabis Delivery
Sections:
5. 96.010 Authority; Purpose; Conflicts of Law
5. 96.020 Definitions
5. 96.030 Exempted Deliveries
5. 96.040 Requirement for Cannabis Delivery License and Lawful Deliveries
5. 96.050 License Application; Contents
5. 96.060 Review and Action on Application
5. 96.070 License Term
5. 96.080 Cannabis Delivery Driver Work Permits; Expiration; Revocation
5. 96.090 Suspension and Revocation of Cannabis Delivery Service Licenses
5. 96. 100 Appeals and Reconsideration
5. 96. 110 Operating Requirements for Delivery Services and Delivery Drivers
5. 96. 120 Inspection of Premises and Records
5. 96. 130 Taxes
5. 96. 140 Regulations
5. 96. 150 Violations
5. 96.010 Authority; Purpose; Conflicts of Law
A. This chapter is adopted pursuant to sections 5 and 7 of Article XI of the California
Constitution and the authority reserved to cities pursuant to state law, including without limitation,
Government Code  11362. 83 and Business and Professions Code  26200.
B. This chapter, consistent with state law, creates regulations to govern cannabis
deliveries which originate in or are made to locations within the City of Vista.
C. This chapter only authorizes cannabis delivery services licensed and conducted in
accordance with this chapter, and no other form of cannabis delivery services whatsoever.
D. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the provisions
of any applicable state or local law or regulation, the more restrictive provision shall control. To
the extent allowed by state law, the City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce all
applicable state laws.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.020 Definitions
Bureau" means the California Bureau of Cannabis Control.
Cannabis" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by Business and Professions
Code  26001( f), as amended from time to time.
Cannabis delivery service" means a person who makes or arranges for at least one
cannabis delivery where the possession of the cannabis being delivered was obtained: ( 1) from
a location within the City of Vista and thereafter delivered to a location inside or outside the City
of Vista; or ( 2) was obtained outside the City of Vista and was thereafter delivered to a location
within the City of Vista.
5. 96 ( l) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Cannabis delivery service license" means a City license issued pursuant to section
5. 96.060 authorizing an applicant (which has already obtained a Type 9 or Type 10 license) to
operate a cannabis delivery service within the City of Vista.
Cannabis retail facility" means the single location and all improvements thereon from
which activity is occurring or will occur that requires a Type 9 or Type 10 license.
Cannabis retailer" means an individual or entity that engages in commercial cannabis
activity that requires either a Type 9 or Type 10 license.
City" means the City of Vista.
City business day" means a day on which the physical structure, constituting the Vista
City Hall, is open to the public for business.
Commercial cannabis activities" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by
Business and Professions Code  26001( k) and regulations adopted thereunder.
Delivery" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by Business and Professions
Code 26001( p) and regulations adopted thereunder, but does not extend to exempted deliveries
described in section 5. 96. 030.
Delivery driver" means a person who, at any time, drives a vehicle for the purpose of
delivering any cannabis on behalf of a person which has been issued cannabis delivery license
pursuant to chapter 5. 96.
Delivery driver work permit" means the permit issued to an applicant, upon successful
application submitted pursuant to section 5. 96. 080, which authorizes the permit holder to operate
as a delivery driver within the City of Vista.
Disqualifying conviction" means a felony conviction, a drug conviction or, a conviction
within seven years prior to the date an application is filed, constituting a driving under the influence
conviction.
Driving under the influence conviction" means a criminal conviction for driving under
the influence of alcohol or drugs.
Drug conviction" means a criminal conviction involving the theft, manufacture,
transportation, sale or possession of a controlled substance.
Entity" has the same meaning as does the term person, but excludes a natural person.
Extra-territorial delivery service" means any cannabis delivery service which makes
deliveries of cannabis that originate from a location outside the City of Vista.
Individual" means a natural person.
Licensing officer" means the city employee designated by the City Manager( other than
the City Manager or Assistant City Manager) who is responsible for processing license
applications, delivery driver work permit applications, and assuming other functions necessary to
implement this chapter.
5. 96 ( 2) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or
combination of persons acting as a unit.
Primary caregiver" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by 11362. 7( d) of the
Health and Safety Code.
Registration list" means the current registration list for medical cannabis retail
businesses maintained by the City of Vista pursuant to Vista Municipal Code  5. 94. 070.A.
Qualified patient" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by  11362. 7( f) of the
Health and Safety Code.
Type 9 license" means a Type 9 ( cannabis retailer non- storefront) issued by the Bureau.
Type 10 license" means a Type 10 ( cannabis retailer storefront) issued by the Bureau.
Vista-based delivery service" means any cannabis delivery service which makes
deliveries of cannabis that originate from a location inside the City of Vista.
Vista-registered cannabis retailer" means a cannabis retailer which is included on the
current registration list maintained by the City of Vista pursuant to Vista Municipal Code
5. 94. 070.A.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.030 Exempted Deliveries
This chapter does not apply the following types of cannabis delivery or transport:
A. A lawful non- commercial delivery of cannabis made by a primary caregiver to a
qualified patient in conformity with state law and applicable regulations.
B. A delivery or transfer of cannabis which neither originates from a location within
the City of Vista nor concludes at a location within the City of Vista.
C. A delivery or transfer of cannabis by a licensed cannabis distributor( holding either
a Type 11 or Type 13 license issued by the Bureau) which is conducted in accordance with
applicable state laws, state regulations, and local ordinances.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.040 Requirement for Cannabis Delivery License and Lawful Deliveries
A. A person may not operate as a cannabis delivery service in the City of Vista unless
the person: ( 1) has and maintains a valid cannabis delivery service license; and ( 2) operates the
cannabis delivery service in conformity with this chapter.
B. An individual may not deliver cannabis on behalf of a cannabis delivery service
unless: ( 1) the cannabis delivery service has been issued a current and valid cannabis delivery
service license; ( 2) the individual has been issued a valid and current cannabis delivery driver
work permit pursuant to section 5. 96. 080, if making deliveries on behalf of a Vista- based delivery
service; and ( 3) the cannabis delivery driver acts in conformity with all rules and requirements of
state law, state regulations, and this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
5. 96 ( 3) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 96.050 License Application; Contents
An application for a cannabis delivery service license shall be made on a form prescribed
by the City. The application shall be accompanied by an application fee in an amount established
by resolution of the City Council, and shall include a statement, made under penalty of perjury,
certifying that all of the information contained in the application is true and correct. An applicant
shall have an opportunity to cure any incomplete application within thirty( 30) days of written notice
of incompleteness by the City. An application for a cannabis delivery service license shall include
at least the following:
A. The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the applicant.
B. The address of the single cannabis retail facility from which the cannabis deliveries
will originate.
C. Evidence that the cannabis delivery service holds a valid and current Type 9 or a
Type 10 license for the cannabis retail facility.
D. Evidence that the cannabis delivery service, if located within the City is included
on the current registration list maintained by the City pursuant to chapter 5. 94.
E. A list of all vehicles to be used for cannabis deliveries in the City of Vista, with the
following information: ( 1) year, make and model, color and vehicle information number of vehicle;
2) license plate number for vehicle; and ( 3) confirmation that the vehicle is equipped with an
alarm system.
F. Evidence of automobile liability insurance from an insurance company admitted
by the Insurance Commissioner of the State of California to transact the business of insurance
in the state which shall be for a combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage
liability of not less than one million dollars ($ 1, 000,000).
G. If the applicant will operate from a location within the City of Vista, evidence that
the premises of the Vista-based delivery service has at least one on- site space reserved for each
delivery vehicle, or has provided equivalent arrangements for the parking of those vehicles that
satisfies the licensing officer in the officer' s sole discretion.
H. If the applicant will operate from a location within the City of Vista, an initial list of
all individuals whom the cannabis delivery service authorizes to serve as delivery drivers upon
obtaining a cannabis delivery driver work permit pursuant to section 5. 96. 080.
I. The applicant shall commit to provide periodic reports and documentation in such
manner and at such times as set by City Manager regulations on the following: ( 1) changes and
updates with respect to the cannabis delivery drivers employed by the delivery service; ( 2)
changes and updates with respect to the delivery vehicles used by the cannabis delivery service;
3) documentation regarding the presence of sufficient parking spaces for those vehicles; ( 4)
documentation relating to the maintenance of insurance required by this chapter; and ( 5) other
documentation or information useful in assuring that the cannabis delivery service is complying
with this chapter.
J. A signed indemnity agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney, by which
the applicant agrees to indemnify and defend ( at its sole cost and expense) the City, its officers,
employees and agents against: (1) any legal challenge to the issuance of a license to the applicant
pursuant to this chapter, including any decisions to renew or extend that license; and ( 2) all claims,
losses, damages, injuries, liabilities or losses which arise out of, or which are in any way related
to, the actions undertaken in connection with the cannabis delivery service and its cannabis
delivery drivers. Any such defense shall be made using legal counsel reasonably selected by the
City.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
5. 96 ( 4) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 5. 96.060 Review and Action on Application
A. A license application shall be denied for one or more of the following reasons,
which may be based on the information contained in the application: ( 1) the application is
incomplete, or fails to provide required information; or( 2) the application includes false, inaccurate
or materially misleading information.
B. When an application is denied, the licensing officer shall provide a notice of denial
to the applicant setting forth the reasons for the denial. The notice shall be sent to the applicant
by mail and/ or email to the address or addresses provided by the applicant in its application. The
notice shall be deemed to be delivered on the date it is deposited into the United States mail,
postage prepaid, or emailed, whichever is earlier. The notice of denial shall become final and
conclusive unless a timely, complete appeal is filed with the City Clerk in accordance with section
5. 96. 100, along with the required appeal fee, no later than the tenth ( 10th) calendar day following
the date the notice of denial is deemed to be delivered.
C. If no basis exists to deny an application, the licensing officer shall issue the
appropriate license to the cannabis delivery service. The license shall identify, specify, or include:
1) the name of the licensed cannabis delivery service; ( 2) the address for the retail cannabis
facility; and ( 3) such other content as the licensing officer determines to be appropriate.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.070 License Term
Unless earlier revoked pursuant to section 5. 96.090, a cannabis delivery license shall
automatically expire on the earlier of the following: ( 1) the date on which the cannabis retail facility
from which deliveries are made ceases to hold a Type 9 or a Type 10 license; or (2) the date on
which a cannabis retail facility located in the City of Vista ceases to be included on the most
current registration list.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.080 Cannabis Delivery Driver Work Permits; Expiration; Revocation
A. An individual shall not deliver cannabis for a Vista- registered cannabis retailer
without first obtaining a cannabis delivery driver work permit pursuant to this section.
B. An application for a cannabis delivery driver work permit shall be made on a form
provided by the City. The completed application shall contain the following information and be
accompanied by the following documents:
1. The applicant' s legal name and any other names used by the employee.
2. The applicant' s age, date and place of birth.
3. The applicant's present residence address and telephone number.
4. The name and address of the cannabis delivery service that will employ the
applicant.
5. A statement that the applicant does not have a disqualifying conviction.
6. A receipt indicating that a Live Scan has been performed with respect to
the applicant and that its results will be delivered to the City so the City can confirm if the applicant
has been convicted of an offense which is a precluding conviction.
7. Satisfactory written proof that the employee is at least twenty-one ( 21)
years of age.
8. Evidence that the applicant holds a valid and current driver license issued
by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
C. The completed application shall be signed under the penalty of perjury, and shall
be accompanied by a non- refundable application fee as set by resolution of the City Council.
5. 96 ( 5) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Within five City ( 5) business days after receipt of the properly completed
application and any Live Scan results, the licensing officer shall grant or deny the application and
so notify the applicant. The licensing officer shall grant the application and issue the permit unless
the application is denied for one or more of the following reasons:
1. The employee has made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statement in
the application;
2. The employee is under twenty-one ( 21) years of age;
3. The employee has been convicted of an offense constituting a disqualifying
conviction.
E. The permit, if approved, shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it
is granted, the name and address of the cannabis delivery service employing the individual, and
such other information as the licensing officer determines should be set forth in the permit.
F. The licensing officer may revoke a cannabis delivery driver work permit for any
reason which would permit the denial of an application for a delivery driver work permit.
G. If not first revoked pursuant to paragraph F, the permit shall expire on the earlier
of the following: ( 1) the date the employee no longer has a valid California driver license; or ( 2)
the date on which the cannabis retailer which employs the driver no longer holds a Type 10 license
or is no longer included on the City' s registration list.
H. At any time, a cannabis delivery driver may relinquish his or her employee work
permit by providing the City with a signed written direction to that effect.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96.090 Suspension and Revocation of Cannabis Delivery Service Licenses
A. The licensing officer may summarily suspend or revoke a cannabis delivery service
license if any of the following, singularly or in combination, occur:
1. The licensing officer determines that the licensee has failed to comply with
this chapter or any condition of approval.
2. A circumstance occurs, exists, or is discovered which would have permitted
the licensing officer to deny the cannabis delivery service license.
3. The licensee, if a Vista- registered cannabis retailer, fails to allow inspection
of its cannabis retail facility, its delivery vehicles, or its books or records in accordance with section
5. 96. 120.
4. The licensee does not have or has not maintained: ( a) a current and valid
Type 9 or Type 10 license; ( b) a current and valid local license, registration, permit, or approval
issued by a city or county that is required for the lawful operation of the cannabis retailer.
B. A licensing officer may ( but has no obligation to) defer the effective date for a
license suspension or revocation to permit a licensee sufficient time to file an administrative
appeal before the suspension or revocation takes effect.
C. A suspension may not exceed one year. If a license is terminated, the cannabis
retailer may not reapply for a cannabis delivery service license for a period of twelve months.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 100 Appeals and Reconsideration
A. An applicant or a cannabis delivery service may file an appeal if a license
application is denied or if cannabis dispensary service license is revoked or suspended. A timely
and complete appeal must be filed with the City Clerk no later than ten ( 10) city business days
from the earlier of the date on which the City notifies the applicant of the license denial, revocation,
or suspension. The date of notice shall be the earlier of the date the action is communicated by
email or the date on which the City deposits a mailed notice into the United States mail. A
5. 96 ( 6) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
complete appeal must include an appeal fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council,
and the following: ( i) the name of the party filing the appeal, which must be either the applicant or
cannabis delivery service which experienced the adverse licensing decision; ( ii) an email address
and street address to which correspondence may be communicated; ( iii) the licensing action
which is being appealed; and ( iv) all evidence, facts, and reasons to be considered and which the
appellant believes support its appeal. The submitted appeal will be presented to the City Manager
for action based on the materials in the record developed by the City prior to taking its action, and
the materials submitted by the appellant. Before taking action, the City Manager may provide the
appellant with additional evidenced used or which may be used to justify the City' s action of denial,
and offer the appellant an opportunity to respond. Within ten ( 10) City business days of receiving
the appeal, providing additional evidence to the appellant ( if any), and obtaining a response from
appellant ( if any), the City Manager shall: ( 1) deny the appeal if the City Manager determines that
the denial was permitted under the terms of this chapter; (2) reverse the denial if the City Manager
determines that the denial was not permitted under the chapter and an approval should have been
given; or ( 3) direct that a remand occur or such other actions be taken as may be needed to
achieve better compliance with the terms of this chapter. The decision of the City Manager shall
be made in writing. Rather than processing the appeal himself or herself, the City Manager may
delegate his or her responsibilities to the Assistant City Manager. The decision of the City
Manager, or the Assistant City Manager in the event of a delegation, shall be final, conclusive and
without further administrative appeal.
B. For an action not covered by paragraph A, an aggrieved party may make a written
request to the licensing officer to reconsider or cause an action to be reconsidered. Such a request
must be filed with the City Clerk within ten ( 10) city business days of the earlier of the date the
City notifies the aggrieved party of the action ( for which reconsideration is sought) by email or the
date on which the City deposits a mailed notice of the action into the United States mail. The
request must provide: ( i) the name of the party seeking reconsideration, ( ii) an email address and
street address to which correspondence may be communicated, ( iii) the action for which
reconsideration is sought, ( iv) the result sought following reconsideration, and ( v) all evidence,
facts, and reasons that support the request for reconsideration. If a complete request for
reconsideration is not filed within the time required by this paragraph, the action shall become
final and conclusive. If a timely and complete request for reconsideration is filed, the City Clerk
will provide the request to the licensing officer. Within ten ( 10) City business days, the licensing
officer shall advise the aggrieved party in writing that the licensing officer has decided to not adjust
the action, to adjust or reverse the action, or advise the party that further evidence, information or
explanation is required before a determination can be made. If the licensing officer instructs the
aggrieved party that additional evidence, information or explanation is required, the party shall
provide it to the licensing officer within ten ( 10) City business days of the request, or the request
for consideration shall be deemed to be finally abandoned. A written determination by the
licensing officer shall be sent to the party seeking reconsideration within ten ( 10) City business
days of: ( 1) the date on which the request for reconsideration is filed with the City Clerk; or (2) if
applicable, the date on which supplemental evidence, information or explanation is provided to
the licensing officer in response to the request of the licensing officer, provided that the
supplemental evidence, information or explanation is provided before the request for
reconsideration is deemed to be abandoned.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 110 Operating Requirements for Delivery Services and Delivery Drivers
A. Each Vista- based delivery service must at all times: ( 1) maintain a Type 10
License; ( 2) be included on the current registration list maintained by the City pursuant to Vista
Municipal Code  5. 94. 070.A; (3) hold all other permits or approvals required for the retail
5. 96 ( 7) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
cannabis activities it undertakes; (4) hold a business license issued by the City pursuant to chapter
5. 04 of the Vista Municipal Code; and ( 5) have at least one on- site parking space for each delivery
vehicle or substitute parking arrangements which are satisfactory to the licensing officer in his
sole discretion.
B. Each extra- territorial cannabis delivery service must at all times: ( 1) maintain a
Type 9 or 10 License; ( 2) hold all other permits or approvals required for the retail cannabis
activities it undertakes; and ( 3) hold a business license issued by the City pursuant to chapter
5. 04 of the Vista Municipal Code.
C. Each delivery service which loses or experiences a suspension of any license or
approval described in paragraphs A or B must provide written notice to the licensing officer of that
loss or suspension within one City business day.
D. Every delivery service must at all times comply with all applicable restrictions and
mandates of: ( 1) this chapter, including without limitation, those listed in paragraphs E through M
below; and ( 2) state law and state regulations, including without limitation, those set forth in 16
CCR  5415 through 5421.
E. Cannabis deliveries shall be made only by a person who is directly employed by
the cannabis delivery service, holds a valid and current delivery driver work permit if making
deliveries on behalf of a Vista-based delivery service, and holds a valid and current driver license.
The work permit and driver license must be physically possessed by delivery driver at all times
he or she is working for the cannabis delivery service.
F. Cannabis deliveries shall be made only using vehicles which are registered with
the Department of Motor Vehicles and which do not display the name of the cannabis delivery
service or otherwise advertise any commercial cannabis activity.
G. The cannabis delivery service shall maintain automobile liability insurance from an
insurance company admitted by the Insurance Commissioner of the State of California to transact
the business of insurance in the state which shall be for a combined single limit for bodily injury
and property damage liability of not less than one million dollars ($ 1, 000, 000).
H. Cannabis deliveries shall occur only between the hours of 9: 00 a. m. and 10: 00
p. m.
I. Deliveries shall be made via a person- to person transaction at the residence of the
qualified patient or that person' s primary caregiver where the delivery person confirms the name
and age of the customer before any release of the cannabis. Any other delivery or transaction is
prohibited. The qualified patient or primary caregiver shall maintain a copy of the delivery request
and make it available to law enforcement officers upon request.
J. Delivery drivers shall not transport cannabis in excess of the limits established by
the state.
K. All orders shall be packaged by name of the qualified patient. The delivery driver
shall also maintain a copy of the delivery request and make it available upon request to law
enforcement officers.
L. A person or entity which operates a cannabis delivery service shall complete all
forms and records, under the penalty of perjury, that the licensing officer determines may be
useful or helpful to the officer's calculation or confirmation of gross sales or gross receipts
attributable to the cannabis delivery service, or in the case of a Vista- based delivery service, the
amount of gross sales or gross receipts for the Vista- registered cannabis retailer.
M. Pursuant to regulations adopted by the City Manager, a cannabis delivery service
can be required to provide periodic reports and documentation with respect to the following: ( 1)
changes and updates with respect to the cannabis delivery drivers employed by the delivery
service; ( 2) changes and updates with respect to the delivery vehicles used by the cannabis
delivery service; ( 3) documentation regarding the availability of sufficient parking spaces for those
vehicles; (4) documentation relating to the procurement of insurance required by this chapter; and
5. 96 ( 8) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
5) other documentation or information useful in assuring that the cannabis delivery service is
complying with this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 120 Inspection of Premises and Records
A. This section applies to a Vista- registered cannabis retailer which delivers cannabis
pursuant to this chapter, and to a Vista- registered cannabis facility from which cannabis deliveries
are made.
B. All owners, managers, or employees of the Vista- registered cannabis retailer shall
provide the City ( including any employees, officers, agents, or contractors of the City) with full
access to the entirety of the Vista- registered cannabis facility, its security camera footage, its
delivery vehicles, its equipment, and its records or books as follows:
1. To inspect the premises, land, improvements comprising the Vistaregistered
cannabis facility for compliance with this chapter and state laws, including Building
Code and Fire Code compliance.
2. To review or copy any materials, books, records or security camera footage
of the Vista- registered cannabis retailer and Vista- registered cannabis facility, including without
limitation any related to the cannabis delivery service.
3. To test any equipment possessed by, in control of, or used by the Vistaregistered
cannabis retailer or located at the Vista- registered cannabis facility;
4. To test any cannabis or cannabis product possessed by, in control of, or
used by a Vista- registered cannabis retailer.
5. To inspect any vehicles used by the Vista- registered cannabis retailer,
including without limitation those used for making deliveries of cannabis.
C. Failure by any Vista- registered cannabis retailer to comply with this section shall
itself be a violation of this chapter.
D. Prior notice of an inspection, investigation, review, or audit is not required.
E. Any inspection, investigation, review, or audit of a Vista- registered cannabis
retailer or of a Vista- registered cannabis facility shall be conducted anytime the facility is open for
business.
F. This section shall not be construed or applied in a manner to deprive any Vistaregistered
cannabis retailer or other person of any privilege which is guaranteed by the
Constitutions of the United States and/ or the State of California, or any other applicable law.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 130 Taxes
A. All revenues and payments obtained by a Vista- registered cannabis retailer for
cannabis deliveries shall constitute gross sales when calculating the special use tax owed by the
Vista- registered cannabis retailer under Vista Municipal Code  5. 94. 140. A. Failure to make full
and timely payment of that tax, along with any interest or penalties, is a violation of this chapter.
B. All extra-territorial cannabis delivery services must make a timely payment of the
taxes which it owes to the City from time to time as required by City ordinance or other law. These
taxes, at minimum, include both: ( 1) the gross receipts taxes due pursuant to chapter 7. 10,
inclusive of any applicable late payments, interest, and penalties; and ( 2) the taxes owing
pursuant to chapter 5. 04, inclusive of any late payments, interest, and penalties. Failure to make
full and timely payment is a violation of this chapter.
C. Each Vista- registered cannabis delivery service and each extra- territorial delivery
service shall immediately and fully participate in any tax audit or review as allowed by Vista
5. 96 ( 9) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Municipal Code  5. 94. 140 et seq. and chapter 7. 10. 090 et seq., and make all records available
for inspection by the City or its agents in connection with such an audit or review.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 140 Regulations
The City Manager is authorized to promulgate such regulations, rules and procedures as
may be necessary or convenient to implement this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 96. 150 Violations
A. Any violation of this chapter is unlawful and a public nuisance. A nuisance under
this chapter may be abated by the City, or by the City Attorney on behalf of the people of the State
of California, as a nuisance by means of a restraining order, injunction, abatement warrant, or any
other order or judgment in law or equity issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. The City, or
the City Attorney on behalf of the people of the State of California, may seek injunctive relief to
enjoin violations of, or to compel compliance with this chapter or seek any other relief or remedy
available at law or equity, including the imposition of monetary civil penalties.
B. Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
violation and upon conviction thereof any violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($ 1, 000. 00), or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. No proof of knowledge, intent, or other mental state is required
to establish a violation.
C. In the event of a violation of this chapter, the City may notify a cannabis delivery
service and any other responsible party that the City intends to impose a daily civil penalty for the
violation. Civil penalties imposed on a daily basis shall not exceed two thousand dollars ($ 2, 000)
for each day or portion of a day that the violation occurs. The amount of civil penalties imposed
shall be determined by taking into account the severity of the violation, the occurrence of prior
violations, the degree of culpability, the economic benefit accruing to the cannabis delivery service
due to the violation ( or cost savings enabled by the violation), and whether the violation can be
attributed to deliberate misconduct, negligence, inadequate supervision, or error. Penalties may
be set so they begin to accrue if a cure is not accomplished by a set date, or in a manner where
the penalties escalate over time. Penalties may be recovered as part of any civil action, or as part
of a negotiated agreement between the City and the cannabis delivery service which fixes the
amount of the civil penalties and the terms by which the violation will be cured if it has yet to be
corrected.
D. The City may issue an administrative citation for each violation of this chapter
pursuant to the procedures set forth in chapter 1. 13.
E. Whenever in this chapter any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
F. The remedies specified in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available under state or local law for a violation of this Code.
G. The procedures contained in section 5. 96. 100 shall not apply to and may not be
utilized in connection with any enforcement actions, penalties or proceedings taken pursuant to
this section.
Ord. No. 2019- 20, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
5. 96 ( 10) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 5. 98
Licensing of Cannabis
Testing, Distribution, and Manufacturing Facilities
Sections:
5. 98.010 Authority; Purpose; Conflicts of Law
5. 98.020 Definitions
5. 98.030 Exemptions from Chapter
5. 98.040 License Required for All Cannabis Enterprise Activities
5. 98.050 Locations for Eligible Licenses
5. 98.060 Numerical Limits on Certain Licenses
5. 98.070 License Application; Contents
5. 98.080 Review and Action on Application
5. 98.090 License Term; Expiration; Renewal
5. 98. 100 Transfer of Ownership Interest, Modification or Other Material Changes
5. 98. 110 Employee Permits; Revocation
5. 98. 120 Suspension and Revocation of Cannabis Enterprise Licenses
5. 98. 130 Appeals and Reconsideration
5. 98. 140 Operating Requirements for Cannabis Enterprises
5. 98. 150 Obligations of Members of the Management and Ownership Team
5. 98. 160 Inspection of Premises and Records
5. 98. 170 Taxes
5. 98. 180 Regulations
5. 98. 190 Violations
5. 98.010 Authority; Purpose; Conflicts of Law
A. This chapter is adopted pursuant to sections 5 and 7 of Article XI of the California
Constitution and the authority reserved to cities pursuant to state law, including without limitation,
Government Code  11362.83 and Business and Professions Code  26200.
B. This chapter, consistent with state law, creates regulations to govern cannabis
enterprise facilities and persons engaged in cannabis enterprise activities.
C. This chapter only authorizes cannabis enterprise activities licensed and conducted
in accordance with this chapter, and no other form of commercial cannabis activity whatsoever.
D. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the provisions
of any applicable state or local law or regulation, the more restrictive provision shall control. To
the extent allowed by state law, the City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce all
applicable state laws.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.020 Definitions
Cannabis" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by Business and Professions
Code  26001( 0, as amended from time to time.
Cannabis distributor (Type 11)" means a facility or entity that procures, sells, and
transports cannabis products between persons or entities holding licenses issued by the Bureau
of Cannabis Control and which, prior to lawful operation, must obtain a " Type 11" state license,
as identified in Business and Professions Code  26050.
5. 98 ( l) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Cannabis distributor (Type 11) license" means a City license issued to a person
pursuant to section 5. 98.080 authorizing operation of a cannabis distributor ( Type 11) at the
location indicated in the application, subject to receipt of all state licenses, a certificate of
occupancy and compliance with other applicable laws.
Cannabis enterprise" means a cannabis distributor( Type 11), a cannabis manufacturer
Type 6), or a cannabis testing laboratory.
Cannabis enterprise activity" means any commercial cannabis activity, as defined in
Business and Professions Code  26001( k) and regulations adopted thereunder; but excluding
those uses businesses and activities which fall exactly within the exceptions described in
section 5. 98. 030.
Cannabis enterprise facility" means the land identified in the cannabis enterprise
application of the cannabis enterprise ( as specified in section 5. 98.070.G), inclusive of all
buildings, fixtures and improvements present on the land at the time of application or thereafter,
and from which the cannabis enterprise intends to operate after receiving all required licenses
and approvals.
Cannabis enterprise license" means each of the following: a cannabis distributor( Type
11) license, a cannabis manufacturer license (Type 6) or a cannabis testing laboratory license.
Cannabis enterprise license application" means the application to be submitted
pursuant to section 5. 98.070 which, upon approval, will result in the issuance of a cannabis
enterprise license.
Cannabis manufacturer (Type 6)" means a facility or entity which: ( 1) conducts the
production, preparation, propagation, or compounding of cannabis or cannabis products in a
manner that meets the definition of a cannabis manufacturer set forth in Business and Professions
Code  26001( ah) using only those compounds and processes that may be lawfully undertaken
while holding only a " Type 6  Manufacturer 1" license as identified in Business and Professions
Code  26050 and issued by the California Department of Public Health; ( 2) is not a cannabis
manufacturer( Type 7 Manufacturer 2); and (3) which may self-transport of its own manufactured
products using a distributor transport only (Type 13) license with a " self-distribution" restriction.
Cannabis manufacturer (Type 6) license" means a City license issued to a person
pursuant to section 5. 98.080 authorizing operation of a cannabis manufacturer ( Type 6) at the
location indicated in the application, subject to receipt of all state licenses, a certificate of
occupancy and compliance with other applicable laws.
Cannabis manufacturer (Type 7  Manufacturer 2)" means a facility or entity that
engages in one or more activities that would require the facility or entity to hold a " Type 7 
Manufacturer 2" license, identified in Business and Professions Code  26050(a), and issued by
the California Department of Public Health.
Cannabis testing laboratory" means a laboratory, facility, or entity that offers or
performs tests of cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the following: ( 1) accredited
by an accrediting body that is independent from all other persons involved in commercial cannabis
activity in the state; and ( 2) which, prior to lawful operation, must obtain a " Type 8" state license,
as identified in Business and Professions Code  26050.
5. 98 ( 2) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Cannabis testing laboratory license" means a City license issued to a person pursuant
to section 5. 98.080 authorizing operation of a cannabis testing laboratory at the location indicated
in the application, subject to receipt of all state licenses, a certificate of occupancy and compliance
with other applicable laws.
Capital investment and business plan" means a confidential plan, submitted with a
cannabis enterprise license application, covering a projected five-year period beginning on the
date that state license required for the enterprise is obtained. The plan shall include: ( 1) pro
formas presenting all projected expenses of the cannabis enterprise including land acquisition,
carrying costs or interest expense, construction costs for the cannabis enterprise facility,
equipment acquisition costs, professional expenses, salaries, and other overhead or operating
expenses; (2) projected revenue sources to finance those expenses divided into committed
capital contributions ( including the projected source of those contributions), loans ( including the
projected source of those loans), and business operating revenues; and (3) a narrative description
briefly explaining the business model for the proposed cannabis enterprise, and the competitive
business environment in which it will operate.
City" means the City of Vista.
City business day" means a day on which the physical structure, constituting the Vista
City Hall, is open to the public for business.
Commercial cannabis activities" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by
Business and Professions Code  26001( k) and regulations adopted thereunder.
Entity" has the same meaning as does the term person, but excludes a natural person.
Individual" means a natural person.
Licensing officer" means the city employee designated by the City Manager( other than
the City Manager or Assistant City Manager) who shall review cannabis enterprise license
applications, approve or deny license applications, process license renewal applications, and take
such other actions as may be required or useful in implementing this chapter.
Management and ownership team" means the group of persons consisting of each
owner and, if any, each primary contributor.
Management and ownership team report" means a report which demonstrates that
the management and ownership team have the skills, experience and track record to assure that
the cannabis enterprise will operate in a manner that will satisfy all state and local laws,
ordinances and regulations that will apply to the cannabis enterprise. The management and
ownership team report shall include information on each cannabis enterprise or other cannabis
business with which each member of the management and ownership team has been associated
within the last seven years, and such other business experience for the members of the
management and ownership team that might be relevant to making an assessment of the
management and ownership team report.
On-site manager" means the person or persons who is primarily responsible for the
day-to-day operations and activities of the medical cannabis facility at any time during a day.
5. 98 ( 3) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Owner" means: ( 1) a person with an aggregate ownership interest of 20 percent or more
in the person applying for a license or a licensee, unless the interest is solely a security, lien, or
encumbrance; (2) the chief executive officer of a nonprofit or other entity applying for the license;
3) a member of the board of directors of a nonprofit or other entity applying for the license; and
4) an individual who will be participating in the direction, control, or management of the person
applying for a license.
Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or
combination of persons acting as a unit.
Precluding conviction" means any felony drug conviction within the prior four years.
Primary contributor" means a person ( other than an owner) who will make a primary
contribution to the legal compliance and/ or success of the cannabis enterprise and should be
identified in the management and ownership team report as part of the management and
ownership team.
RLI zone" means the area designated in the Vista Business Park Specific Plan as the
Research Light Industrial and Business Support Group ( Use Area `B')."
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.030 Exemptions from Chapter
The following commercial cannabis activities are exempt from regulation under this
chapter: ( 1) any business or activity authorized by, and conducted in accordance with chapter
5. 94 ( licensed medical cannabis dispensaries); ( 2) any business or activity authorized by, and
conducted in accordance with chapter 5. 96 ( licensed delivery services); or (3) the lawful
cultivation of up to six plants by a qualifying adult or by a personal caregiver.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.040 License Required for All Cannabis Enterprise Activities
A. It is unlawful for an individual or entity to engage in any cannabis enterprise activity
in Vista unless the activity occurs at a cannabis enterprise facility for which a valid and current
cannabis enterprise license exists, and the activity is undertaken in a manner permitted by this
chapter.
B. It is unlawful for an individual or entity to lease, rent, permit or allow any parcel of
land, in whole or part, to be used for any cannabis enterprise activity unless a current and valid
cannabis enterprise license exists authorizing a cannabis enterprise facility to operate on the land
and all cannabis enterprise activities are conducted in accordance with the license and this
chapter.
C. The cannabis enterprise license required by this chapter shall be in addition and
supplemental to any business license or any permit required by any ordinance of the City.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.050 Locations for Eligible Licenses
A. To be eligible for approval, the location of a cannabis enterprise identified in an
application must satisfy all of the following: ( 1) be within the RLI zone; (2) be authorized pursuant
to a special use permit, as further specified in paragraph D, if the cannabis enterprise facility is a
5. 98 ( 4) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
cannabis distributor ( Type 11) or a cannabis manufacturer ( Type 6); and ( 3) be outside a 600
hundred foot radius surrounding any day care center, youth center, or school providing instruction
in kindergarten or any grades 1 through 12.
B. The distances in paragraph A shall be considered at the time the license is
approved, and shall be measured as provided in Health and Safety Code  11362.768 or as
otherwise provided by law.
C. Interpretations and determinations regarding distances and separations shall be
made by the licensing officer.
D. The special use permits described in paragraph A shall be permitted in accordance
with section 18. 74. 120 of the Vista Development Code, except that the requirements of
18. 74. 120.A.2 shall be replaced with the determination that the proposed use, in the manner to
be conducted, is permitted in the applicable zone and will conform to applicable state and local
laws and regulations.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19; Ord. No. 2020-05, Amended, 4/ 28/ 20)
Section 5. 98.060 Numerical Limits on Certain Licenses
A. Cannabis enterprise licenses shall be limited as follows: ( 1) a maximum of two
cannabis manufacturer ( Type 6) licenses; and ( 2) a maximum of two cannabis distributor
Type 11) licenses. Limits are not imposed on the number of allowable cannabis testing laboratory
licenses.
B. The licensing officer shall have the sole and exclusive authority to make
determinations regarding the ordering, prioritizing and processing applications under this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.070 License Application; Contents
An application for a cannabis enterprise license shall be made on a form prescribed by
the City. The application shall be accompanied by an application fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council, and shall include a statement, made under penalty of perjury,
certifying that all of the information contained in the application is true and correct. An applicant
shall have an opportunity to cure any incomplete application within thirty( 30) days of written notice
of incompleteness by the City. An application for a cannabis enterprise license shall include at
least the following:
A. The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the applicant.
B. The address from which the cannabis enterprise will operate.
C. Whether the applicant seeks to operate as a cannabis distributor ( Type 11),
cannabis manufacturer( Type 6), or cannabis testing laboratory.
D. Proof of organizational status, such as articles of incorporation, partnership
agreements, or other documentation as may be required by the City.
E. The name of each member of the management and ownership team, with such
other identifying information as the City may require.
F. A completed criminal background check, inclusive of Live Scan results, for each
member of the management and ownership team to determine if any member has a precluding
conviction. The application should include a copy of the Live Scan application form for each
member of the management and ownership team. The results of the Live Scan are delivered to
the City independently.
G. Documentation establishing that the applicant is, or will be, entitled to possession
of the premises for which the application is made. Evidence of lawful possession consists of a
properly recorded deed, lease, evidence of ownership of the premises, or other written documents
acceptable to the City. The licensed premises shall only be the geographical area that is
5. 98 ( 5) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
specifically and accurately described in executed documents verifying lawful possession.
Licensees are not authorized to relocate to other areas or units within a building structure without
first filing an application for a modification of the local license, obtaining a special use permit for
the new premises for a cannabis distributor (Type 11) or manufacturer (Type 6), and obtaining
approval from the City.
H. An operating plan for the proposed cannabis enterprise facility including the
following information:
1. A general description of the types of products to be tested, manufactured,
or distributed by the cannabis enterprise.
2. A floor plan designating all interior dimensions and the layout of the
cannabis enterprise facility, including all limited access areas, areas of ingress and egress, and
all security camera locations. Such floor plan shall also show the principal uses of the floor area
depicted therein and shall identify all areas where product will be located;
3. If the applicant is a cannabis manufacturer whether the manufacturer
intends to transport its own manufactured products. If so, the operating plan shall include: ( 1) an
assurance that the transport will be conducted only pursuant to a valid and current Type 13
transport-only license with a " self-distribution" restriction; ( 2) an assurance that no transport of
any cannabis shall occur except that allowed by a Type 13 license with a " self-distribution"
restriction; and ( 3) a description of the number of vehicles, nature of vehicles, and projected
operation of vehicles to be used in the self-distribution of the applicant's manufactured products.
I. A security plan for the proposed cannabis enterprise facility including the following
security requirements:
1. Video surveillance. The cannabis enterprise facility must be equipped with
a video surveillance system that meets all of the requirements of Cal. Code Regs., Title 16,  5044
as well as those set forth in this subsection.
a. Security cameras and digital storage of recordings shall be
maintained in good condition and used in an on- going manner, twenty-four (24) hours per day,
and seven ( 7) days per week.
b. The security system must maintain at least ninety ( 90) calendar
days of digitally recorded video for each security camera in the licensed premises. Security
footage should be stored in an MPEG4, MJPEG, H. 264, or another format approved by the City
in writing and the recorded video shall be made available to the Sheriff Department or the City
immediately upon request.
C. Security cameras must provide adequate and sufficient coverage
for the facility, which must include but need not to be limited to, all restricted and limited access
areas, all areas of ingress and egress, the public areas, storage areas, and any other areas as
required by this chapter and applicable provisions of state law.
d. The video surveillance system must be equipped with a failure
notification system that provides prompt notification to a security company licensed by the
department of consumer affairs, bureau of security and investigative services, of any surveillance
interruption or complete failure of the surveillance system that lasts longer than fifteen ( 15)
minutes. The licensed alarm company must promptly report any such notification to the Sheriff
Department.
e. The video surveillance system shall have sufficient battery backup
to support a minimum of twelve ( 12) hours of recording in the event of a power outage.
f. Unless waived by the City in writing, the video surveillance system
shall stream a live feed accessible to the Sheriff Department via a secure internet portal, virtual
private network or other form of secure remote access.
2. Alarm system. The cannabis enterprise facility shall have an audible interior
and exterior security alarm system installed on all perimeter entry points and perimeter windows,
operated, and monitored by a security company licensed by the department of consumer affairs,
5. 98 ( 6) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
bureau of security and investigative services, and approved by the City. " Perimeter entry points"
includes, regardless of size, all doors, windows, hatches and/ or points at which systems ( such as
HVAC systems) enter a structure.
3. Signage requirement. The cannabis enterprise facility must comply with the
following signage requirements.
a. A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place near each point of
public access which shall be not less than twelve ( 12) inches wide and twelve ( 12) inches long,
composed of letters not less than one inch in height, stating " All Activities Monitored by Video
Camera."
b. Limited access areas shall be clearly identified by the posting of a
sign which shall be not less than twelve ( 12) inches wide and twelve ( 12) inches long, composed
of letters not less than a one inch in height, which shall state, " Limited Access AreaAuthorized
Personnel Only."
C. In addition to the requirements set forth in the Development Code,
and applicable special use permit, if any, signage shall be limited to the business name and
address with no advertising, banners, green crosses, or similar insignia.
4. Lighting. The cannabis enterprise facility' s entrance(s) and all window
areas shall be illuminated during evening hours. The applicant shall comply with the city' s lighting
standards regarding fixture type, wattage, illumination levels, shielding, and other restrictions, and
secure the necessary approvals and permits as needed.
5. Commercial- grade locks. All points of ingress and egress to a cannabis
enterprise facility shall ensure the use of commercial- grade, nonresidential door locks and window
locks.
J. Written authorization for the City to seek verification of the information contained
within the application and authorization for the City or its agents to conduct the background
check(s).
K. A capital investment and business plan demonstrating that sufficient investment
for the business has been obtained, and that the business can maintain its operations for a period
of at least five years. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the capital investment and
business plan shall be kept confidential.
L. A complete management and ownership team report, inclusive of all required
information, demonstrating that the management and ownership team have the skills, experience
and track record to assure that the cannabis enterprise will operate in manner that will satisfy all
state and local laws.
M. A signed indemnity agreement by which the applicant agrees to indemnify the City,
its officers, employees and agents for any legal challenge to the issuance of a license to the
applicant pursuant to this chapter, including any decisions to renew or extend that license.
N. Any additional information that the City may request to process and fully
investigate the application. The additional information must be provided to the City no later than
thirty ( 30) days after the date of the request unless otherwise specified by the City. Failure to
provide such additional information by the requested deadline may result in denial of the
application.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.080 Review and Action on Application
A. A license application shall be denied for one or more of the following reasons,
which may be based on the information contained in the application or developed by the City
through independent investigation:
1. The application is incomplete, or fails to provide required information.
5. 98 ( 7) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The application includes false, inaccurate or materially misleading
information.
3. The premises for the cannabis enterprise are not located in conformity with
section 5. 98. 050.
4. The license sought is either for a cannabis distributor ( Type 11) or a
cannabis manufacturer ( Type 6), and: ( a) the City has finally denied a special use permit
application which is required for the cannabis enterprise to operate at the location identified in the
application, or( b) the applicant has ceased to actively and diligently pursue a special use permit.
5. The submitted capital investment and business plan does not establish that
the proposed cannabis distributor ( Type 11) or cannabis manufacturer ( Type 6) has sufficient
capital investment and a business plan to assure that the business can successfully maintain its
operations for a period of at least five years.
6. The results of the Live Scan indicate that a member of the ownership and
management team has a precluding conviction.
7. The licensing officer determines he or she has a legitimate basis to deny
the application, based on substantial evidence. For purposes of this subparagraph, a " legitimate
basis" exists when the licensing officer cannot reasonably conclude ( based on all available
information) that the proposed cannabis business has demonstrated ( to a high likelihood) that it
will operate in a manner conforming to all local and state laws, ordinances and regulations. This
determination shall consider if the management and ownership team, collectively, has: ( i) the
demonstrated experience and history of operating cannabis enterprises or similar ventures in a
manner that conforms to applicable state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations; and ( ii) has
the technical, managerial and business experience and capabilities to manage and operate a
cannabis enterprise in a manner that comports with the local and state laws, ordinances and
regulations.
When an application is denied, the licensing officer shall provide a notice of denial to the applicant
setting forth the reasons for the denial. The notice shall be sent to the applicant by mail and/ or
email to the address or addresses provided by the applicant in its application. The notice shall be
deemed to be delivered on the date it is deposited into the United States mail, postage prepaid,
or emailed, whichever is earlier. The notice of denial shall become final and conclusive unless a
timely, complete appeal is filed with the City Clerk in accordance with section 5. 98. 130, along with
the required appeal fee, no later than the tenth ( 101h) calendar day following the date the notice
of denial is deemed to be delivered.
B. If no basis exists to deny an application and any required special use permit has
been obtained for the cannabis enterprise, the licensing officer shall issue the appropriate license
to the cannabis enterprise. The license shall identify, specify, or include: ( 1) the name of the
licensed cannabis enterprise; ( 2) whether the cannabis enterprise is a cannabis distributor (Type
11), a cannabis manufacturer( Type 6) or a cannabis testing laboratory; (3) the location from which
operations are approved; ( 4) the date on which the license is issued; ( 5) the date on which the
license expires; ( 6) a proviso that the cannabis enterprise should not commence specific
construction suited to a cannabis enterprise until it has obtained any required licenses from the
Bureau of Cannabis Control; ( 7) a proviso that the cannabis enterprise should not commence any
operations until it has obtained both a certificate of occupancy from the City and any required
licenses from the Bureau of Cannabis Control; and ( 8) such other content as the licensing officer
determines to be appropriate.
C. If 60 days pass following the City's receipt of all required Live Scan results without
an action being taken to deny or conditionally approve an application for a cannabis distributor
Type 11) or a cannabis manufacturer( Type 6), the City will provide the applicant with a notice of
continuing review which indicates that the license application is still under review. A notice of
continuing review may also be issued by the licensing officer before the passage of 60 days, but
no sooner than 10 days after the City obtains all required Live Scan results.
5. 98 ( 8) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98.090 License Term; Expiration; Renewal
A. A cannabis enterprise license shall have an initial term which begins on the date
the license is issued and ends on the first June 30 which is at least ninety (90) days following the
date the license is issued. Thereafter, each cannabis enterprise license shall be in force for a oneyear
term which runs from July 1 through June 30, provided that the license is timely and
successfully renewed as provided in paragraphs B through D.
B. A licensed cannabis enterprise may apply for the renewal of its license no less
than thirty (30) days prior to the license' s expiration date. If the licensed cannabis enterprise files
a renewal application within thirty (30) days prior to expiration, the licensee shall provide a written
explanation detailing the circumstances surrounding the late filing. The City may accept or reject
such late filing in its discretion. The City may elect to administratively continue a local license past
its expiration date, provided that the licensee has submitted a renewal application that is complete
and pending final action.
C. An application for renewal will only be accepted if it is accompanied by the requisite
renewal licensing fee.
D. Each application for renewal shall include updated information for any part of the
application that has undergone a change in circumstance since the original application or last
renewal filing and shall recertify all information submitted in prior application( s).
E. Unless the City has expressly authorized in writing the renewal of the cannabis
enterprise license, a license is immediately invalid upon expiration and the cannabis enterprise
shall cease operations. The licensing officer shall approve or deny the application for renewal
based upon the grounds set forth in section 5. 98.080.A.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 100 Transfer of Ownership Interest, Modification or Other Material
Changes
A. A licensed cannabis enterprise must obtain prior approval for any transfer of
ownership interest, significant modification of a cannabis enterprise facility, significant
modification in the nature and operation of the cannabis enterprise, or change in its management
and ownership team.
B. An application seeking approval for any change described in paragraph A shall be
made using forms prescribed by the licensing officer, and shall be accompanied by an application
fee in an amount set by the City Council.
C. Except as provided in paragraph D, action on the application shall be denial if the
changes would produce a condition or circumstance that would justify the denial of an application
based on the criteria set forth in section 5. 98. 080.A. If a basis for denial is not present, the
application shall be approved.
D. For a transfer of ownership interest or a change of location, a new local license
must be obtained, and if applicable, a new special use permit.
E. No licensee may sublet any portion of a licensed premises.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 110 Employee Work Permits; Revocation
A. As of the day a cannabis enterprise opens for business, it shall provide the
licensing officer with the name of each full or part time employee or person working at the
5. 98 ( 9) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
premises as a volunteer. The cannabis enterprise shall update its list within thirty (30) days of any
change in a previously provided list.
B. No person shall be employed at, or volunteer at, a cannabis enterprise facility
unless the person holds a valid employee permit issued pursuant to this section.
C. The application shall be made on a form provided by the City. The completed
application shall contain the following information and be accompanied by the following
documents:
1. The applicant' s legal name and any other names used by the employee.
2. The applicant' s age, date and place of birth.
3. The applicant's present residence address and telephone number.
4. A statement that the applicant has not been convicted of a felony within the
four (4) years preceding the application.
5. A receipt indicating that a Live Scan has been performed with respect to
the applicant and that its results will be delivered to the City so the City can confirm if the applicant
has been convicted of any felony within the last four years.
6. Satisfactory written proof that the employee is at least twenty-one ( 21)
years of age.
D. The completed application shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application
fee as set by resolution of the City Council.
E. Within five ( 5) City business days after receipt of the properly completed
application and any Live Scan results, the licensing officer shall grant or deny the application and
so notify the applicant. The licensing officer shall grant the application and issue the permit unless
the application is denied for one or more of the following reasons:
1. The employee has made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statement in
the application;
2. The employee is under twenty- one (21) years of age;
3. The employee has been convicted of a felony within the four ( 4) years
preceding the date application was submitted.
F. The licensing officer may revoke an employee work permit for any reason which
would permit the denial of an application for an employee work permit.
G. At any time, an employee may relinquish his or her employee work permit by
providing the City with a signed written direction to that effect.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 120 Suspension and Revocation of Cannabis Enterprise Licenses
A. It is unlawful for any person to operate a cannabis enterprise facility or engage in
cannabis enterprise activity in a manner that violates any provision of this chapter, and any such
violation shall be enforced as provided in this chapter.
B The licensing officer may summarily suspend or revoke a cannabis enterprise
license if any of the following, singularly or in combination, occur:
1. The licensing officer determines that the licensee has failed to comply with
this chapter or any condition of approval or a circumstance or situation has been created that
would have permitted the licensing officer to deny the cannabis enterprise license or employee
permit.
2. Operations at the cannabis enterprise facility cease for more than ninety
90) calendar days.
3. Ownership of the cannabis enterprise facility is changed without securing
a local license.
5. 98 (10) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
4. The licensee fails to allow inspection of the cannabis enterprise facility or
books or records of the cannabis enterprise, including security footage, which is required by this
chapter.
5. The licensee fails to possess and/ or maintain a valid state license or special
use permit.
C. A licensing officer may ( but has no obligation to) defer the effective date for a
license suspension or revocation to permit a licensee sufficient time to file an administrative
appeal before the suspension or revocation takes effect.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 130 Appeals and Reconsideration
A. An applicant or a cannabis enterprise may file an appeal if a license application or
a license renewal application for a cannabis enterprise is denied, or if a cannabis enterprise
license is revoked or suspended. A timely and complete appeal must be filed with the City Clerk
no later than ten ( 10) City business days from the earlier of the date on which the City notifies the
applicant of the license denial, revocation, or suspension. The date of notice shall be the earlier
of the date the action is communicated by email or the date on which the City deposits a mailed
notice into the United States mail. A complete appeal must include an appeal fee in an amount
set by resolution of the City Council, and the following: ( i) the name of the party filing the appeal,
which must be either the applicant or cannabis enterprise which experienced the adverse
licensing decision; ( ii) an email address and street address to which correspondence may be
communicated, ( iii) the licensing action which is being appealed; and ( iv) all evidence, facts, and
reasons to be considered and which the appellant believes support its appeal. The submitted
appeal will be presented to the City Manager for action based on the materials in the record
developed by the City prior to taking its action, and the materials submitted by the appellant.
Before taking action, the City Manager may provide the appellant with additional evidenced used
or which may be used to justify the City's action of denial, and offer the appellant an opportunity
to respond. Within ten ( 10) City business days of receiving the appeal, providing additional
evidence to the appellant ( if any), and obtaining a response from appellant ( if any), the City
Manager shall: ( 1) deny the appeal if the City Manager determines that the denial was permitted
under the terms of this chapter; ( 2) reverse the denial if the City Manager determines that the
denial was not permitted under the chapter and an approval should have been given; or( 3) direct
that a remand occur or such other actions be taken as may be needed to achieve better
compliance with the terms of this chapter. The decision of the City Manager shall be made in
writing. Rather than processing the appeal himself or herself, the City Manager may delegate his
or her responsibilities to the Assistant City Manager. The decision of the City Manager, or the
Assistant City Manager in the event of a delegation, shall be final, conclusive and without further
administrative appeal.
B. For an action not covered by paragraph A, an aggrieved party may make a written
request to the licensing officer to reconsider or cause an action to be reconsidered. Such a request
must be filed with the City Clerk within ten ( 10) City business days of the earlier of the date the
City notifies the aggrieved party of the action ( for which reconsideration is sought) by email or the
date on which the City deposits a mailed notice of the action into the United States mail. The
request must provide: ( i) the name of the party seeking reconsideration; ( ii) an email address and
street address to which correspondence may be communicated; ( iii) the action for which
reconsideration is sought; ( iv) the result sought following reconsideration; and ( v) all evidence,
facts, and reasons that support the request for reconsideration. If a complete request for
reconsideration is not filed within the time required by this paragraph, the action shall become
final and conclusive. If a timely and complete request for reconsideration is filed, the City Clerk
will provide the request to the licensing officer. Within ten ( 10) City business days, the licensing
5. 98 ( 11) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
officer shall advise the aggrieved party in writing that the licensing officer has decided to not adjust
the action, to adjust or reverse the action, or advise the party that further evidence, information or
explanation is required before a determination can be made. If the licensing officer instructs the
aggrieved party that additional evidence, information or explanation is required, the party shall
provide it to the licensing officer within ten ( 10) City business days of the request, or the request
for consideration shall be deemed to be finally abandoned. A written determination by the
licensing officer shall be sent to the party seeking reconsideration within ten ( 10) City business
days of: ( 1) the date on which the request for reconsideration is filed with the City Clerk; or (2) if
applicable, the date on which supplemental evidence, information or explanation is provided to
the licensing officer in response to the request of the licensing officer, provided that the
supplemental evidence, information or explanation is provided before the request for
reconsideration is deemed to be abandoned.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 140 Operating Requirements for Cannabis Enterprises
All cannabis enterprises shall comply with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
Failure to comply with any of these requirements shall be a violation of this chapter, and
considered grounds for suspension and/ or revocation of its cannabis enterprise license.
A. All operations of a cannabis enterprise shall comply with all applicable restrictions
and mandates of state law and state regulations.
B. All operations of a cannabis enterprise shall comply with all of the applicable
restrictions and mandates in this chapter, its security plan, and the terms of any special use permit
issued for its operations, if any.
C. A cannabis enterprise shall pay any applicable taxes pursuant to federal, state,
and local laws, including without limitation the taxes required by both chapter 5. 04 and
chapter 7. 10 of the Vista Municipal Code.
D. All operations of the cannabis enterprise shall occur exclusively on or within its
cannabis enterprise facility, and no other land or premises within the City may be used for any
functions or operations of the cannabis enterprise, except for parking of vehicles.
E. Cannabis maintained at a cannabis enterprise facility shall be kept and stored in a
secured manner within a limited access area or restricted access area at all times in compliance
with the approved security plan.
F. On-site smoking, ingestion, or consumption of cannabis shall be prohibited on the
premises of all cannabis enterprises. The term "premises" as used in this subsection includes the
actual building, as well as any accessory structures, common areas and parking areas. A sign
shall be posted at each entrance of a cannabis facility that clearly and legibly states, " Smoking,
ingestion, or consumption of cannabis on these licensed premises or in their vicinity is prohibited
and a violation of the Vista Municipal Code."
G. A cannabis enterprise shall not sell, provide, store, or distribute any product that
would require that the seller possess a license issued by the California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control.
H. A cannabis enterprise shall display a copy of its cannabis enterprise license issued
pursuant to this chapter in a conspicuous place at the entrance to the licensed premises.
I. A cannabis enterprise shall utilize onsite armed and state licensed security staff
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven ( 7) days a week unless otherwise approved in writing by the
Sheriff Department.
J. A cannabis enterprise shall have an air treatment system or other controls to
ensure that detectable cannabis odors do not escape through ventilation or exhaust systems.
K. A cannabis enterprise shall not maintain cash overnight. A commercial grade safe
shall be used to store all cash during hours of operation. All cash proceeds shall be transferred
5. 98 (12) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
to and from the cannabis facility in accordance with the requirements of the approved security
plan.
L. A cannabis enterprise shall engage in no form of transport of any cannabis or
cannabis products except: ( 1) transport by a cannabis manufacturer (Type 6) pursuant to a valid
and current Type 13 transport only license with a self-distribution restriction; (2) where the
transport occurs in a manner that satisfies all applicable legal and regulatory requirements; ( 3)
the cannabis manufacturer( Type 6) advised Vista in its cannabis enterprise application that it had
intended to make sure deliveries; and ( 4) prior to undertaking any deliveries the City is provided
a copy of the valid and current Type 13 license with evidence of a self-distribution restriction.
M. A cannabis enterprise shall within one day provide written notice to the licensing
officer of the loss or suspension of any state license issued by the Bureau of Cannabis Control,
or other State agency that the cannabis enterprise requires to hold for any commercial cannabis
activity it conducts.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 150 Obligations of Members of the Management and Ownership Team
It is the obligation of each owner, as well as any onsite manager, to assure that the
cannabis enterprise, at all times, is operating in a manner which complies with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including any subsequently enacted state or local
law or regulatory, licensing, or certification standards or requirements, and any specific, additional
operating procedures or requirements which may be imposed as conditions of approval of a state
license or a City license. It is the obligation of each person employed at a cannabis enterprise to
individually act in a manner that satisfies, and avoids violations, of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 160 Inspection of Premises and Records
A. City officials, employees, and their designees authorized to enforce the provisions
of this chapter shall have full access to the entirety of a cannabis enterprise facility, security
camera footage of the cannabis enterprise facility, and records of every cannabis enterprise for
the following purposes:
1. To inspect the premises, land, improvements comprising the cannabis
enterprise facility for compliance with this chapter and state Laws, including Building Code and
Fire Code compliance;
2. To review or copy any materials, books, records or security camera footage
of the cannabis enterprise or cannabis enterprise facility;
3. To test any equipment possessed by, in control of, or used by a cannabis
enterprise;
4. To test any cannabis or cannabis product possessed by, in control of, or
used by a cannabis business;
B. Failure by any cannabis enterprise or any person associated with a cannabis
enterprise to comply with this section shall itself be a violation of this chapter;
C. The access rights, audit rights, and inspection rights afforded to the City by this
section may be fully utilized and exercised by any contractor or agent engaged or authorized to
represent the City.
D. Prior notice of an inspection, investigation, review, or audit is not required;
E. Any inspection, investigation, review, or audit of a cannabis enterprise facility shall
be conducted anytime the cannabis licensing enterprise is open for business;
5. 98 (13) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
F. This section shall not be construed or applied in a manner to deprive a cannabis
enterprise or its employees of any privilege which is guaranteed by the Constitutions of the United
States and/ or the State of California, or any other applicable law.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 170 Taxes
A. Each cannabis enterprise is obligated to make a timely payment of the taxes which
it owes to the City from time to time as required by City ordinance or other law. These taxes, at
minimum, include both: ( 1) the gross receipts taxes due pursuant to chapter 7. 10, inclusive of any
applicable late payments, interest, and penalties; and ( 2) the taxes owing pursuant to
chapter 5. 04, inclusive of any late payments, interest, and penalties. Failure to make full and
timely payment is a violation of this chapter.
B. Each cannabis enterprise shall immediately and fully participate in any tax audit or
review as allowed by chapter 7. 10 or as allowed by section 5. 98. 160, and make all records
available for inspection by the City or its agent in connection with such an audit or review.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 180 Regulations
The City Manager is authorized to promulgate such regulations, rules and procedures as
may be necessary or convenient to implement this chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 5. 98. 190 Violations
A. Any violation of this chapter is unlawful and a public nuisance. A nuisance under
this chapter may be abated by the City, or by the City Attorney on behalf of the people of the State
of California, as a nuisance by means of a restraining order, injunction, abatement warrant, or any
other order or judgment in law or equity issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. The City, or
the City Attorney on behalf of the people of the State of California, may seek injunctive relief to
enjoin violations of, or to compel compliance with this chapter or seek any other relief or remedy
available at law or equity, including the imposition of monetary civil penalties.
B. Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
violation and upon conviction thereof any violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($ 1, 000.00), or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. No proof of knowledge, intent, or other mental state is required
to establish a violation.
C. In the event of a violation of this chapter, the City may notify a cannabis enterprise
and any other responsible party that the City intends to impose a daily civil penalty for the violation.
Civil penalties imposed on a daily basis shall not exceed two thousand dollars ($ 2, 000) for each
day or portion of a day that the violation occurs. The amount of civil penalties imposed shall be
determined by taking into account the severity of the violation, the occurrence of prior violations,
the degree of culpability, the economic benefit accruing to the cannabis business enterprise due
to the violation ( or cost savings enabled by the violation), and whether the violation can be
attributed to deliberate misconduct, negligence, inadequate supervision, or error. Penalties may
be set so they begin to accrue if a cure is not accomplished by a set date, or in a manner where
the penalties escalate over time. Penalties may be recovered as part of any civil action, or as part
of a negotiated agreement between the City and the cannabis enterprise which fixes the amount
of the civil penalties and the terms by which the violation will be cured if it has yet to be corrected.
5. 98 (14) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
D. The City may issue an administrative citation for each violation of this chapter
pursuant to the procedures set forth in chapter 1. 13.
E. Whenever in this chapter any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
F. The remedies specified in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies available under state or local law for a violation of this Code.
G. The procedures contained in section 5. 98. 130 shall not apply to and may not be
utilized in connection with any enforcement actions, penalties or proceedings taken pursuant to
this section.
Ord. No. 2019- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 19)
5. 98 (15) Vista 5/ 29/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6. 04
Animal Control in General
Sections:
6. 04.010 Domestic Animal" Defined for Purpose of Sections 6. 04.020 and 6. 04.030
6. 04.020 Running At-Large
6. 04.030 Fowl At-Large; Annoying or Offensive Fowl
6. 04.040 Exotic Animals
6. 04.050 Right of Entry
6. 04.060 Straying on Military Property Prohibited
6. 04.070 Belgian Hares to be Confined
6. 04.080 Releasing Belgian Hares Prohibited
6. 04.090 Use of Animals and Fowl as Targets Prohibited - Exceptions
6. 04. 100 Dogs to be Enclosed or Secured in Vehicles
6. 04. 110 Animals Not to be Left in Vehicle Without Ventilation
6. 04. 120 Enforcement
Section 6. 04.010 " Domestic Animal" Defined for Purpose of Sections 6. 04.020 and
6. 04.030
As used in Sections 6. 04. 020 and 6. 04.030, the term " domestic animal" shall mean any
goat, cow, horse, mule, burro, or other domestic animal except dogs and cats.
Prior Code 4- 6; Ord. No. 86- 54, Amended 11/ 25/ 86; Ord. No. 91- 29, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 26,
Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.020 Running At-Large
A. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having in his control or custody any
horse, cow, mule, sheep, goat, hog, pig, jack or jenny to permit or allow such animal to wander
unattended or run at large upon any public or private street, highway or public park within the city.
B. The prohibition contained in Subsection A above shall not include private driveways
serving four or fewer residences.
Prior Code 4- 7; Ord. No. 86-54, Amended 11/ 25/86; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.030 Fowl At-Large; Annoying or Offensive Fowl
No person keeping or having hens, ducks, geese or other domestic fowl or rabbits within
the city shall cause or permit them to go or be at large and to go or be upon the premises owned
or occupied by any other person without such other person' s consent, or so keep or have any such
fowl or animals so as to be offensive or to annoy any person residing in the neighborhood where
they are kept.
Prior Code 4- 39; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1// 28/63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Adopted 2/ 15/ 63; Ord. No. 91- 29,
Amended, 10/ 08/ 91; Ord. No. 92-26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.040 Exotic Animals
A. Exotic animal is defined as any animal which is not normally domesticated in the
United States including, but not limited to, any lion, tiger, bear, nonhuman primate ( monkey,
chimpanzee, etc.), wolf, cougar, ocelot, wildcat, skunk, boa, python, or venomous snake,
irrespective of its actual or asserted state of docility, tameness or domesticity.
6. 04 ( l) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. No one may maintain, display, or possess any exotic animal that creates a public
disturbance or is a danger to public health and safety as determined by a state humane officer.
C. Subsection B of this section shall not apply to legally operated zoos or circuses
unless the state humane officer shall give 24 hours advance notice that, by reason of inadequate
caging or sanitation measures or by a particular hazard connected with the animal or animals
involved, the public health and welfare will be endangered, nor shall it apply to birds, small
rodents, or small nonpoisonous reptiles commonly owned as pets.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.050 Right of Entry
State humane officers, the Chief of Police, peace officers and health officers shall have the
right to enter upon any privately owned property for the following purposes:
A. To issue a warning notice or citation for violation of any provisions of this chapter.
B. To investigate whether a dog is licensed in compliance with Section 6. 07. 010 et
seq., if entry is needed to a private residence or private back yard during the course of the license
investigation, permission shall be obtained from the occupant prior to entry.
C. To seize or impound any animal as authorized by this chapter.
D. To investigate possible rabies or other contagious animal disease, and to enforce
the rabies control provisions of Section 6. 08.010 et seq.
E. To investigate the possible violation of Section 6. 04. 020 or 6. 06. 020 of this chapter
relating to animals running at- large.
F. To investigate a reported " vicious dog" pursuant to Section 6. 09.010 et seq., and
the maintenance conditions imposed on a dog so designated pursuant to the aforesaid division.
G. To investigate the presence and/ or possible violation of Section 6. 04.040 of this
article relating to exotic animals.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.060 Straying on Military Property Prohibited
No person shall permit any domestic animal owned by him or under his control to stray
upon any land in the city used or occupied by the military or naval forces of the United States.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.070 Belgian Hares to be Confined
A. No person shall have in his possession or under his care or control any Belgian
hare, without providing safe and sufficient means and enclosure to restrain the same from escape
or running at large.
B. No person shall permit any Belgian hare, which may have escaped from his
enclosure or custody to remain at- large or unconfined.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.080 Releasing Belgian Hares Prohibited
No person shall release or permit to escape from confinement any Belgian hare, or set any
such Belgian hare at- large.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04.090 Use of Animals and Fowl as Targets Prohibited - Exceptions
A. No person shall conduct, maintain or engage in any enterprise or activity which
uses live animals or fowl as a target for amusement or as a test of skill in marksmanship; or shoot
6. 04 ( 2) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
at such animals or fowl as a target for amusement or as a test of skill in marksmanship; or be a
party to such shooting; or knowingly permit the use of property which he owns or controls for such
shooting.
B. This section does not apply to the shooting of any animal or fowl for the purposes of
human consumption, nor does it apply to the shooting of animals or fowl in a free state released by
the state, by private hunting clubs or individuals properly licensed by the State Fish and Game
Department for the purpose of hunting or restocking. This section does not apply to the use of fowl
or animals in the field for the training of hunting dogs in accordance with the Fish and Game Code
of the state.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04. 100 Dogs to be Enclosed or Secured in Vehicles
No person shall transport or carry on any public street, public highway or public roadway
any dog in a motor vehicle unless the dog is safely enclosed within the vehicle or protected by a
cab or container, secured cage, cross-tether or other device which will prevent the dog from falling
from, being thrown from or jumping from the motor vehicle. As used in this section, " motor vehicle"
includes any trailer.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04. 110 Animals Not to be Left in Vehicle Without Ventilation
No person shall leave a dog or other animal in an unattended motor vehicle without
adequate ventilation or in such a manner as to subject the animal to extreme temperatures, which
adversely affect the animal's health or welfare.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 04. 120 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude nor
be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 04 ( 3) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6.05
Impoundment Generally
Sections:
6. 05.010 City Pound - Established
6. 05.020 Location
6. 05.030 Right to Impound
6. 05.040 Notice of Impoundment; Disposition of Animal
6. 05.050 Sale of Impounded Animals; Public Notice
6. 05.060 Fees; Lien
6. 05.070 Disposition of Money Collected From Sale, Impoundment, Etc.
6. 05.080 Enforcement
Section 6. 05.010 City Pound - Established
There is hereby created and established a City Pound, for the purpose of impounding
strays and animals running at large.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.020 Location
The City Pound shall be situated at such place or places as shall be designated by
resolution of the City Council.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.030 Right to Impound
State Humane Officers, the Chief of Police, peace officers, and health officers shall have
the right to impound, take, or seize any animal under the following circumstances:
A. Whenever any dog, licensed or unlicensed, domestic animal, and/ or wild animal
as defined in Sections 6. 04.020 and 6. 04.040 of this chapter) is found running at- large in
violation of Section 6. 06.020 of this chapter if:
1. The animal has not returned to the private property of its owner or
custodian; or
2. The animal has returned to the private property of its owner or custodian,
but the owner or custodian is not at home.
B. Whenever the animal has, or is suspected of having rabies or hydrophobia.
C. Whenever a dog has been declared vicious pursuant to Section 6. 09.010 et seq.
D. Whenever any exotic animal ( as defined in Section 6. 04.040 of this chapter)
creates a public disturbance or is a danger to public health and safety, as determined by a
State Humane Officer.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.040 Notice of Impoundment; Disposition of Animal
A. Whenever any animal is impounded pursuant to Section 6. 05. 030.A of this
chapter, the impounding official shall give notice of such seizure and taking within 24 hours of
the impounding to the owner or person in legal custody or control, if the address of such person
is known. Such notice shall state the following: that the dog has been impounded, where the
6. 05 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
dog is being held, the name, address and telephone number of the agency or person to be
contacted regarding release of the dog, and an indication of the ultimate disposition of the dog if
no action to regain it is taken within a specified period of time by its owner or by the person who
has a right to control the dog.
B. Any animal impounded pursuant to Section 6. 05.030.A of this chapter shall be
released to the owner or person having legal custody or control if the owner or custodian calls
for and claims the animal within 96 hours of its impoundment, and upon payment of impound
fees imposed pursuant to Section 6. 05.060 of this chapter. If an impounded dog is unlicensed,
the person seeking to claim the dog must also pay the license fee, in addition to the payment of
impound fees.
C. If any impounded animal is not claimed by and released to its owner or custodian
on or before the expiration of the 96 hours, the animal shall become the property of the
Humane Society and be placed for adoption or destroyed.
D. Any dog impounded pursuant to Section 6. 05.030. 13 of this chapter and found to
be afflicted with rabies or hydrophobia shall be destroyed forthwith by the Humane Society.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.050 Sale of Impounded Animals; Public Notice
If, for 24 hours after impoundment, any person owning or claiming to own such animal
shall fail to pay to the Poundmaster the fee and charges imposed by Section 6. 05.060, and to
remove the animal from the public pound, the Poundmaster shall, after giving five days public
notice in writing, stating that he will expose and offer such animal for sale at public auction to
the highest bidder for cash, posted in the following three places in the city: one at the entrance
of the City Pound, one on the bulletin board at the entrance of the City Hall, and one on the
bulletin board at the entrance of the Vista Sheriff's Station.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.060 Fees; Lien
The City Council shall establish by resolution charges and fees for the impoundment of
animals pursuant to this chapter. All such charges and fees are hereby made a lawful charge
against the owner of animals impounded, and shall be a lien upon the animals for payment
thereof.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.070 Disposition of Money Collected From Sale, Impoundment, Etc.
The proceeds of the sale as provided in Section 6. 05.050 shall first be applied to the
payment of fees and costs due the City incurred in the impounding, keeping and sale of the
animal, and shall be deposited by the Poundmaster with the City Treasurer to be credited to the
general fund, and the balance of the proceeds, if any, shall be deposited by the Poundmaster
with the City Treasurer for the benefit and to the credit of the owner thereof.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 05.080 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this Code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his/ her designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this Code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude
nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 05 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6.06
Dogs Generally
Sections:
6. 06.010 Applicability of Article
6. 06.020 Running At- Large
6. 06.030 Dog Denying Access to Public Sidewalk, Street, or Alley
6. 06.040 Interfering with Dog Used by Law Enforcement Agency or Officer
Prohibited
6. 06.050 Animal Waste Removal
6. 06.060 Enforcement
Section 6. 06.010 Applicability of Article
The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to dogs under the age of four
months and which are kept within enclosures and are not permitted to run at- large.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 06.020 Running At- Large
A. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having in his control or custody any
dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, or any exotic animal ( as defined in Section 6. 04.040), to
permit or allow such dog or exotic animal to run at- large on any public or private street, alley,
park, square, place or vacant or unenclosed lot or land within the city, other than those of the
person having charge, custody or possession of such dog or exotic animal.
B. The prohibition contained in Subsection A above shall not include private
driveways serving four or fewer residences.
C. The prohibition contained in Subsection A above shall not apply to any dog
under the supervision of any peace officer in the discharge or attempted discharge of his or her
duties.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 06.030 Dog Denying Access to Public Sidewalk, Street, or Alley
No person owning or having control or custody of any dog shall keep or restrain the
animal by a leash, chain, strap, rope or cord, so that the animal is able to run, stay or wander
onto any portion of any public sidewalk, street, alley or place in such a manner as to block,
deny access, impede, interfere with or prohibit use of such sidewalk, street, alley or place to the
public.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 06.040 Interfering with Dog Used by Law Enforcement Agency or Officer
Prohibited
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully tease, taunt, torment, strike, kick, mutilate,
disable, or otherwise injure or kill, or to interfere or meddle with any dog while such animal is
being utilized by the police department or any other law enforcement agency, or any officer or
employee thereof, in the performance of any function or duty of said department or agency, or
of such officer or employee. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 06 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 6. 06.050 Animal Waste Removal
A. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or having in his or her care,
custody or control any dog to knowingly fail, refuse or neglect to clean up any feces of such dog
immediately and dispose of it in a sanitary manner whenever such dog has defecated upon
public or private property within the Vista city limits without the consent of the public or private
owner or person in lawful possession or charge of the property.
B. The provisions of Subsection A shall not apply to a blind person being
accompanied by a guide dog or a trained dog being utilized by a law enforcement agency, nor
shall they be construed to require or authorize any act of trespass upon private property.
Whenever the feces to be cleaned up cannot be reached without a trespass upon private
property on which the feces is located, the person having the duty pursuant to Subsection A to
clean it up shall first obtain consent to do so from the owner or person in lawful possession or
charge of the property.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 06.060 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his/ her designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude
nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 06 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6.07
Licenses
Sections:
6. 07.010 Required
6. 07.020 Fee Generally; Due Date; Exemption; Penalty
6. 07.030 Application
6. 07.040 Issuance; Tags
6. 07.050 Replacement of Lost or Destroyed Tag
6. 07.055 Pot- Bellied Pigs, License Required
6. 07.060 Enforcement
Section 6. 07.010 Required
It shall be unlawful to own or harbor any dog within the city, except as herein provided,
without first having obtained a license therefore as hereinafter provided and maintaining a tag
thereon as hereinafter provided:
A. Within 30 days of the date upon which the dog is over the age of four months;
B. Within 30 days of the date of ownership of a dog which was over the age of four
months upon said date of ownership; or
C. Within 30 days of the date of loss of a dog license or tag.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 07.020 Fee Generally; Due Date; Exemption; Penalty
A. A dog license obtained pursuant to Section 6. 07.010 may be issued for a term of
either one year or three years, and must be renewed prior to the expiration of the term. If the
license is not obtained during the month in which it is due, a late penalty shall be added to and
collected with the license fee.
B. License fees, penalty fees, and imposed fees shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.
C. Any dog impounded in violation of this chapter shall be presumed to be a dog,
which, prior to impounding, required a license, regardless of such dog' s actual age. An
impounded dog shall not be released to its owner unless the dog is licensed or the required
license fees have been paid.
D. The owners of the following described dogs shall be exempt from the payment of
the required dog license fee. Owners of such dogs are still required to obtain a dog license as
required by Section 6. 07.010 of this chapter, however:
1. Any dog, which has been trained as a police dog and is currently being
used as such by law enforcement agency.
2. A dog trained to be a guide dog, or any dog used by a blind person as a
guide dog, or any dog trained and used as a hearing dog.
3. A one-time exemption will be granted to the owner of a male dog or a
bitch that has been sterilized upon presentation of a certificate of sterilization describing the dog
and is signed by a licensed veterinarian. The exemptions will be for the first year the license is
due subsequent to sterilization.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93; Ord. No. 96- 1, Amended, 02/ 27/ 96)
6. 07 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 6. 07.030 Application
No license to own or harbor a dog, as herein provided, shall be issued except by
presentation of a written certificate that the dog has a current rabies vaccination and an
application in writing to the animal license inspector of the City, setting forth the name and
address of the owner or possessor of the dog, and a brief description of the dog.
The function of receiving the application for a license to own or harbor a dog may be
delegated to the Humane Society if the City Council so directs by resolution and enters into a
contract so providing.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 07.040 Issuance; Tags
The function of issuing a license and a tag, as hereinafter set forth in this section, may
be delegated to the Humane Society by resolution and contract if the City Council so directs.
A. The License Inspector or the Humane Society, if so delegated, upon receipt of
such application, proof of a current antirabies vaccination, and the license fee aforesaid, shall
issue and deliver to such owner or possessor a license certifying the payment of the license fee
and setting forth the number allotted to such dog and shall deliver to the applicant a tag for the
dog, which tag shall at all times be affixed to the collar, covering, harness or other article worn
by such dog.
B. The owner or possessor of a dog, over four months of age, impounded under the
provisions of this chapter and the said owner or possessor paid the license fee for the dog at the
time of redemption, but was not issued the aforesaid tag because the said owner or possessor
did not present the certificate of rabies vaccination required by Subsection 6. 07.020. 3 of this
chapter, must present a certificate of current rabies vaccination within ten days of the date the
said dog was redeemed to the License Inspector or the Humane Society, if so delegated. Upon
presentation of the certificate of a current rabies vaccination the License Inspector or the
Humane Society, if so delegated, shall deliver to the applicant the aforesaid tag.
C. The owner or possessor of a dog less than four months of age, which was
impounded under the provisions of this chapter and the said owner or possessor paid the
license fee for the dog at the time of redemption, but was not issued the aforesaid tag because
the owner or possessor did not present the certificate of a current rabies vaccination required by
Subsection 6. 07. 020. 3 of this chapter, must present a certificate of a current rabies vaccination
before the dog reaches five months of age, to the License Inspector or the Humane Society, if
so delegated, shall deliver to the applicant the aforesaid tag.
D. It shall be unlawful to transfer or attach a license tag issued for one dog to any
other dog.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 07.050 Replacement of Lost or Destroyed Tag
In the event the tag required to be affixed to the collar, covering, harness or other device
worn by such dog is lost or destroyed, the owner or person harboring such dog must obtain
another tag, and he shall pay such sum as may be established by resolution of the City Council
for each additional tag issued.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 07.055 Pot- Bellied Pigs, License Required
A. Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, keep or harbor, or to
permit the possession, keeping or harboring of, any pot- bellied pig, within the City of Vista
6. 07 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
without having obtained a valid and current license issued by the City. A license shall be
obtained within 30 days of the date of possession or custody of the pot- bellied pig, pursuant and
subject to the requirements of Sections 6. 07.040 and 6. 07.050 of the Vista Municipal Code.
B. Definition. For purposes of this section, " pot-bellied pig" shall mean a breed of
pig, hog, or swine commonly referred to as a " Vietnamese pot- bellied pig," provided that the
weight of the pig shall not exceed 150 pounds.
C. Term of license; renewal. A license issued under Subsection A above shall be
issued for either a one or a three-year term. A new license shall be required upon the expiration
of any license previously issued.
D. License fees; penalties for late renewal. A fee is hereby imposed for each
license issued. The fee shall be collected at the same rate, and in the same manner, as the fee
for issuance of a dog license. If a renewal license is not obtained by the date due, a penalty
charge shall be added to the fee and collected along with the fee. The penalty charge shall be
imposed at the same rate as the penalty charge for late renewal of a dog license.
E. Conditions for obtaining license. The following additional conditions are required
for obtaining a license under Subsection A:
1. A male pot- bellied pig shall have its tusks removed prior to the age of two
years.
2. A certificate from a licensed veterinarian certifying that an adult potbellied
pig has been neutered or altered.
3. A certificate from a licensed veterinarian certifying that the pot- bellied pig
has received and is currently inoculated against both Pseudo- rabies and Brucellosis.
F. Conditions for denial of a license. If any of the following conditions apply, the
application for a license required under Subsection A above shall be denied:
1. Any of the conditions for issuance of a license set forth in Subsection E
above are not fully satisfied.
2. The property or parcel of land on which the pot- bellied pig is maintained
or kept does not permit the keeping of a pot- bellied pig under current zoning regulations.
3. The issuance of the license would result in a number of pot- bellied pigs
permitted to be kept or maintained on the property greater than the number allowed under
current zoning regulations.
4. It is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the licensing official that the pig
for which the license is requested is not a " pot- bellied pig" as defined in Subsection B above.
5. Based on the particular conditions and circumstances of the property or
parcel on which the pot- bellied pig is kept or maintained, in the judgment of the licensing official,
the keeping, harboring or maintaining of a pot- bellied pig would cause undue hardship or result
in a nuisance to the residents or owners of any adjoining parcel. In exercising discretion to deny
a license under this condition, the licensing official shall make a written report in which the
factual basis for the decision shall be set forth. Denial of any license under this provision may
be appealed, within ten days of the decision, to the City Council by the applicant, in writing
setting forth the basis of the appeal.
The denial of a license under any conditions stated above, except as otherwise
provided, shall be final and conclusive.
G. Revocation of license. Any license issued pursuant to this section may be
revoked, and thereupon shall become void, following a hearing on the revocation by the
licensing official, after notice has been given, pursuant to the right of due process, upon a
finding that any of the following conditions exist.
1. If, within five days following delivery of a written notice to the owner or
licensee of a pot- bellied pig by any enforcement official of the City, the owner or licensee is
unable to, or otherwise fails to, provide a certification form any licensed veterinarian giving the
6. 07 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
true weight of the licensed pig, or if the true weight of the pig for which the license has been
granted exceed the weight permitted under Subsection B above.
2. If any violation of Subsection A of Section 18. 58.080 or Subsection A of
Section 18. 58. 090 of this code has occurred for which a notice of violation has been issued and
the cause or source of the violation has not been cured, removed or eliminated within the
reasonable period of time stated.
In the event a license issued for a pot- bellied pig is revoked, at the discretion of
the enforcement official, the pot- bellied pig may be impounded, subject to the provisions of
notice, disposition, sale and fees as provided in Chapter 6.05 of this code.
Ord. No. 97- 17, Added, 08/ 26/ 97)
Section 6. 07.060 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this Code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his/ her designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude
nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 07 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6.08
Rabies Control
Sections:
6. 08.010 Seizure of Rabid Dogs; Examination; Extermination
6. 08.020 Confinement of Rabies Suspect; Release of Cleared Dog to Owner
6. 08.030 Right of Entry to Examine for Rabies
6. 08.040 Muzzling; Vaccinations
6. 08.050 Vaccination Required
6. 08.060 Certificate of Vaccination
6. 08.070 Exemption from Rabies Vaccination During Illness
6. 08.080 Enforcement
Section 6. 08.010 Seizure of Rabid Dogs; Examination; Extermination
The Poundmaster shall have the right to seize any dog within the city having, or
suspected of having, rabies or hydrophobia, and in the event the health officer shall determine
that such dog is afflicted with rabies or hydrophobia, the dog shall be forthwith killed by the
Poundmaster.
Prior Code 4- 1; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.020 Confinement of Rabies Suspect; Release of Cleared Dog to Owner
If such dog shall be suspected of having rabies or hydrophobia it may be confined by
the Poundmaster for such time as the Health Officer shall direct; and if the Health Officer shall
then determine that the dog does not have rabies or hydrophobia, it shall be returned to the
owner, upon payment by the owner of the sum of 25 cents per day for each day that the dog
shall be kept in confinement, pursuant to the directions of the Health Officer.
Prior Code 4- 2; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.030 Right of Entry to Examine for Rabies
The Chief of Police, Poundmaster, Health Officer, and all peace officers of the City shall
have the right to enter upon any private property for the purpose of ascertaining whether any
dogs are kept or harbored in violation of the provisions hereof, and whether any dog is afflicted
with rabies or hydrophobia.
Prior Code 4- 3; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.040 Muzzling; Vaccinations
The City Council may, by resolution or order, require the muzzling and vaccination, or
either, of any dogs owned or harbored within the city, and may specify the period of time during
which such dogs shall be muzzled; and, any dog running at- large which shall not be vaccinated
or which shall not be muzzled, pursuant to such resolution or order, shall be forthwith killed by
the Poundmaster.
Prior Code 4- 4; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 08 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 6. 08.050 Vaccination Required
Every person owning, harboring, or having custody of a dog shall have the dog
vaccinated for rabies within one month after obtaining a dog over four months of age, or when
the dog reaches four months of age. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor,
possess, or have in his or her care, charge or custody any dog five months of age or older
unless such dog has a current and valid rabies vaccination administered by any duly qualified
and licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine approved by the State Department of Health.
Prior Code 18- 110; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.060 Certificate of Vaccination
Any veterinarian who vaccinates a dog for rabies shall complete the application for a
dog license and vaccination certification form required by the San Diego County Department of
Animal Control or the National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians ( NASPHV)
Form # 50, Rabies Vaccination form that complies with Section 2606, California Administrative
Code, and shall forward a copy of the completed form to the Poundmaster once a month.
When administered for the purpose of issuing a dog license, the vaccination must be valid for
the entire licensing period as specified for the indicated vaccine by the California Department of
Health.
Prior Code 18- 111; Ord. No. 92- 26, Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.070 Exemption from Rabies Vaccination During Illness
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a dog need not be vaccinated for
rabies during an illness if a licensed veterinarian has examined the dog and certified in writing
that such vaccination should be postponed because of a specified illness. Old age, debility or
pregnancy are not considered contraindications to rabies vaccinations. Exemption certificates
are subject to approval by the Poundmaster and shall be valid only for the duration of the
illness. Exemptions from vaccination does not exempt a dog from licensing requirements.
Ord. No. 92- 26; Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 08.080 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his/ her designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude
nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26; Repealed and Replaced, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 08 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6.09
Vicious Dog
Sections:
6. 09.010 Vicious Dog Definition
6. 09.020 Declaration of a Vicious Dog
6. 09.030 Notification of Declaration of a Vicious Dog
6. 09.040 Hearing on Vicious Declaration
6. 09.050 Mandatory Restraint of Vicious Dog
6. 09.060 Conditions for Maintenance of a Vicious Dog
6. 09.070 Failure to Comply
6. 09.080 Notification of Intent to Impound
6. 09.090 Immediate Impoundment
6. 09. 100 Impound Hearing
6. 09. 110 Destruction
6. 09. 120 Change of Ownership
6. 09. 130 Continuation of Declaration as a Vicious Dog
6. 09. 140 Severability
6. 09. 150 Enforcement
Section 6. 09.010 Vicious Dog Definition
Vicious Dog" means dog which:
A. Has twice bitten, within a 48- month period, a person engaged in lawful activity.
B. Has once bitten a person engaged in lawful activity, causing death or serious
injury.
C. Has twice, within a 48- month period, shown disposition, tendency, or propensity
to attack, bite or otherwise cause injury to a person engaged in lawful activity.
D. Has been declared a vicious dog by the Poundmaster of the City or the Humane
Society, if so delegated by the City Council by resolution or contract, or by any other
municipality, county or state.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.020 Declaration of a Vicious Dog
If the Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, has cause to
believe that a dog is a vicious dog within the meaning of Section 6. 09.010, the Poundmaster of
the City or Humane Society may find and declare such a dog a vicious dog.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.030 Notification of Declaration of a Vicious Dog
A. Within three working days of declaring a dog vicious, the Poundmaster of the City
or the Humane Society, if so delegated, will notify, by certified mail, the person owning or
possessing the dog of its designation as a vicious dog and of any specific restrictions and
conditions for the maintenance of the dog, as set forth in Sections 6. 09.050 and 6. 09.060. The
Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, will also notify the City
Manager, Fire Department, and the Police Department of the designation of any dog as a
6. 09 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
vicious dog. The notification will describe the dog and specify any particular requirements or
conditions placed upon the person owning or possessing the dog.
B. The notice shall inform the owner or custodian of the dog that he/ she may
request, in writing, a hearing within five working days of the mailing of the vicious dog
declaration, to contest the finding and designation.
C. Upon request of the owner or custodian of the dog for a hearing, a hearing shall
be held within ten working days of the request for a hearing, a notice of which hearing shall be
mailed to the owner or custodian of the dog requesting the hearing.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.040 Hearing on Vicious Declaration
A. Failure of the person owning or possessing the dog to request a hearing
pursuant to Section 6. 09.030. B shall result in the dog being finally declared a vicious dog and
subject the dog and the person owning or possessing the dog to the provisions of this chapter.
B. A finding at the hearing that the dog does fall within Subsection A, B, or C of
Section 6. 09. 010 shall result in that dog' s being declared a vicious dog and subject the dog and
the person owning or possessing the dog to the provisions of this chapter.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.050 Mandatory Restraint of Vicious Dog
It is unlawful to have custody of, own or possess a dog declared to be vicious under this
chapter unless it is restrained, confined, or muzzled so that it cannot bite, attack or cause injury
to any person.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.060 Conditions for Maintenance of a Vicious Dog
The Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, may impose upon
the person owning or possessing a dog declared a vicious dog specific reasonable restrictions
and conditions for the maintenance of the dog to ensure the health and safety of the public and
dog. The restrictions and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
A. The posting of a bond or other proof of ability to respond in damages in the
amount of$ 10, 000.
B. Requirements as to size, construction, and design of a kennel in which to house
the dog.
C. Location of the dog' s residence, to include removal of the dog from the City of
Vista.
D. Requirements as to type and method of restraints and/ or muzzling of the dog.
E. Photo identification or permanent marking of the dog for the purposes of
identification.
F. Payment of reasonable fees to recover the costs incurred by the Poundmaster of
the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, in ensuring compliance with this chapter.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.070 Failure to Comply
It shall be unlawful for the person owning or possessing a dog declared vicious pursuant
to Section 6. 09.020 to fail to comply with any requirements or conditions imposed pursuant to
Sections 6. 09.050 and 6.09.060.
6. 09 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. Any dog declared vicious pursuant to Section 6. 09.020 found to be in violation of
Section 6. 09.050 shall be impounded by the Poundmaster of the City or Humane Society, if so
delegated. Continued or subsequent possession or ownership of that dog by the person or
persons in possession or having ownership of the dog at the time of violation of Section
6. 09.050 is prohibited.
B. Failure to comply with the restrictions or conditions for maintenance of a vicious
dog as set forth in Section 6. 09.060 will result in citation, impoundment, or other action by the
Poundmaster of the City or Humane Society, if so delegated.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.080 Notification of Intent to Impound
A. When the Poundmaster of the City or Humane Society, if so delegated, intends
to impound a dog declared to be vicious for violation of Sections 6. 09.050 or 6. 09.060, it shall
notify the owner or custodian of the dog, by certified mail, of the intended impoundment at least
five working days prior to the intended impoundment, except as provided in Section 6. 09. 090. A.
B. The notice of intent to impound shall inform the owner or custodian of the dog
that he/ she may request in writing, within five working days prior to the intended impoundment,
a hearing to contest the intended impoundment and finding of violation.
C. Upon request for a hearing by the owner or custodian of the dog pursuant to
Subsection B, a hearing shall be held within ten working days of the request for hearing, a
notice of which hearing shall be mailed by certified mail to the owner or custodian.
D. If the owner or custodian requested a hearing pursuant to Subsection B, no
impoundment shall take place until conclusion of the hearing, except as authorized in section.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09.090 Immediate Impoundment
A. A dog declared to be vicious may be immediately impounded without a
preimpoundment hearing when the Poundmaster of the City or Humane Society, if so
delegated, determines such immediate impoundment is necessary for the protection of public
health or safety. Such immediate impoundment may be ordered for violation of Section
6. 09.050 or when the dog bites an individual.
B. The owner or custodian of the dog immediately impounded pursuant to
Subsection A shall be notified of the impoundment by certified mail within five working days of
the dog' s impoundment.
C. The notice of impoundment shall inform the owner or custodian of the dog that
he/ she may request, in writing, a hearing to contest the impoundment within five working days of
the mailing of the notice of impoundment.
D. Upon request for a hearing by the owner or custodian of the dog pursuant to
Subsection C, a hearing shall be held within ten working days of the request for a hearing, a
notice of which hearing shall be mailed by certified mail to the owner or custodian of the dog
requesting the hearing.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09. 100 Impound Hearing
A. If, after the hearing, the Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so
delegated, finds no violation of Sections 6. 09. 050 or 6. 09.060, or evidence that the dog bit an
individual, the subject dog shall be returned to its owner or custodian if already impounded, or
shall not be impounded as intended.
6. 09 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Incident to findings and conclusions made at the impound hearing, the
Poundmaster of the City or Humane Society, if so delegated, may impose reasonable
restrictions and conditions for the maintenance of the dog to ensure the health and safety of the
public and the animal. The conditions may include, but are not limited to:
1. Posting of a bond or other proof of ability to respond in damages.
2. Specific requirements as to size, construction, and design of a kennel in
which to house the dog.
3. Location of animal' s residence to include removal of the dog from the City
of Vista.
4. Requirements as to type and method of restraint and/ or muzzling of the
dog.
5. Photo identification or permanent marking of the dog for purposes of
identification.
6. Payment of reasonable fees to recover the costs incurred by the
Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society is so delegated, in ensuring compliance with
this chapter.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09. 110 Destruction
A. The Poundmaster or the Humane Society, if so delegated, may order the
destruction of a dog which it determines to be extremely dangerous to public health or safety, a
dog which has made an extremely vicious attack upon an individual, or a dog declared vicious
whose owner is unable or unwilling to adequately restrain it.
B. The Poundmaster or Humane Society, if so delegated, shall give written notice
by certified mail of its intention to destroy such dog to the owner or custodian of the dog, who
may request in writing, within five working days of mailing of such notice, a hearing to contest
the intended destruction.
C. If no hearing is requested pursuant to Subsection B, the dog shall be destroyed
pursuant to applicable provisions of law.
D. If a hearing is requested pursuant to Subsection B, such hearings shall be held
within ten working days of the request; and the dog shall not be destroyed prior to the
conclusion of the hearing.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09. 120 Change of Ownership
Owners or custodians of a vicious dog who sell or otherwise transfer the ownership,
custody or residence of a dog declared vicious shall, within ten days, inform in writing, the
Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, of the name, address and
telephone number of the new owner or custodian and the name and description of the dog. The
previous owner or custodian shall, in addition, notify the new owner or custodian in writing of the
details of the dog' s record, terms and conditions of maintenance, and provide the Poundmaster
of the City or Humane Society, if so delegated, with a copy thereof, and with written
acknowledgment by the new owner or custodian of this receipt of the notification. The
Poundmaster of the City or the Humane Society, if so delegated, will notify the City Manager,
Fire Department, and the Sheriffs Department of any changes of ownership, custody, or
residence within three working days of receipt of such information.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 09 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 6. 09. 130 Continuation of Declaration as a Vicious Dog
Any dog which has been declared a vicious dog by any agency or department of this
City, another municipality, county, or state shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter for
the remainder of its life. The person who owns or possesses any dog declared a vicious dog by
any municipality, county, or state government must notify the Poundmaster of the City or
Humane Society, if so delegated, of the dog' s address and restrictions of maintenance, within
ten days of moving the animal into the city. The restrictions and conditions of maintenance of
any dog declared vicious by this City, another municipality, county, or state will continue to
remain in force while the dog is in this city.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09. 140 Severability
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this ordinance and adopted this chapter and each section,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
Section 6. 09. 150 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his/ her designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude
nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 92- 26, Enacted, 01/ 12/ 93)
6. 09 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
VistaMunicipalCode
Chapter6.10
RetailSalesofDogsandCats
Sections:
6.10.010 Definitions
6.10.020 ProhibitiononCertainSalesofDogsorCats
6.10.030 Exemptions
6.10.040 RetailSaleofShelterandRescueAnimals
6.10.050 CertificateofSource
Section6.10.010 Definitions
WheneverthefollowingwordsortermsareusedinthisChapter, theyshallhavethe
meaningascribedbelow:
meansapublicanimalshelteroperatedbyanycityoranycountyor
otherpublicagencyoranentityoperatingundercontractwithanycityorcountyorotherpublic
agency. Animalsheltershallalsoincludeahumanesocietyordulyincorporatedorganization
devotedtotherescue, careandadoptionofstray, abandonedorsurrenderedanimals.
meansananimaloftheFelidaefamilyoftheorderCarnivora.
meansadocumentdeclaringthesourceofthedogorcatsoldor
transferredbythepetstore. Thecertificateshallincludethenameandaddressofthesourceof
thedogorcat.
meansananimaloftheCanidaefamilyoftheorderCarnivora.
meansaretailestablishmentorstoreopentothepublicandengaginginthe
businessofofferingdogsorcatsforretailsale.
meansapersonwhoownsoroperatesorapetstore, orboth, and/
orwhohiresemployeesatapetstoretoengageintheretailsaleofdogsorcats.
includestodisplay, offerforsale, barter, auction, giveaway, lease, or
transferanydogorcat.
Ord. No. 2015-17, Added, 11/10/15)
Section6.10.020 ProhibitiononCertainSalesofDogsorCats
Nopetstoreorpetstoreoperatorshallselladogoracatunless: thedogorcatwas
obtaineddirectlyfromananimalshelterorthesaleisexemptpursuanttoSection6.10.030.
Ord. No. 2015-17, Added, 11/10/15)
Section6.10.030 Exemptions
Thischapterdoesnotapplyto:
1. Apersonorestablishmentthatsells, delivers, offersfor sale, barters, auctions,
givesaway, leasesorotherwisetransfersordisposesofdogsorcatsthatwerebornandreared
onthepremisesofthepersonorestablishment;
2. Apubliclyoperatedanimalshelter;
3. Aprivatehumanesocietyordulyincorporatedorganizationdevotedtotherescue,
careandadoptionofstray, abandonedorsurrendereddogsorcats;
4. Apubliclyoperatedanimalshelter, humanesociety, orduly incorporated
organizationdevotedtotherescue, careandadoptionofstray, abandonedorsurrendereddogs
orcatsthatoperatesoutoforinconnectionwithapetstore.
Ord. No. 2015-17, Added, 11/10/15)
6.10 (1) ( Vista12/11/15)
VistaMunicipalCode
Section6.10.040 RetailSaleofShelterandRescueAnimals
Nothinginthischaptershallpreventapetstoreorpetstoreoperatorfromprovidingspace
andappropriatecarefordogsorcatsownedbyananimal shelter, ordulyincorporated
organizationdevotedtotherescue, careandadoptionofstray, abandonedorsurrendereddogs
orcatsandmaintainedatthepetstoreforthepurposeofengagingintheretailsaleofthose
animals.
Ord. No. 2015-17, Added, 11/10/15)
Section6.10.050 CertificateofSource
Apetstoreoperatorshallpostandmaintaininaconspicuousplace, onorwithinthreefeet
ofeachdog'sorcat'skennel, cageorenclosure, acertificateofsourceforeachdogorcatoffered
forretailsaleensuringthedogorcatwasobtainedinfullcompliancewiththischapter, andthe
petstoreoperatorshallprovideacopyofsuchcertificateofsourcetothepurchaserortransferee
ofanydogorcat.
Ord. No. 2015-17, Added, 11/10/15)
6.10 (2) ( Vista12/11/15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6. 12
Disposal of Dead Animals
Sections:
6. 12.010 Definitions
6. 12.020 Leaving Dead Animals on Private Property Prohibited - Nuisance
6. 12.030 Disposal of Dead Animals by Owner
6. 12.040 Disposal of Dead Animals by Owner or Occupant of Property
6. 12.050 Removal and Disposal by City
6. 12.060 Burial of Dead Animals
6. 12.070 Collection and Transportation of Dead Animals
Section 6. 12. 010 Definitions
Animal" for the purposes of this article, means and includes, but is not limited, to all of
the following:
A. All animals, whether wild or tame, including, but not limited to, the dog, cat, horse,
mule, cattle, sheep, hog.
B. All reptiles, including, but not limited to, the snake.
C. All aquatic animals, including, but not limited to, fish.
D. All birds, and all fowl including, but not limited to, the chicken, turkey, duck.
Prior Code 4- 40; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 020 Leaving Dead Animals on Private Property Prohibited - Nuisance
No dead animal shall be deposited or allowed to remain upon any premises within a
quarter of a mile of any street, park, highway, state highway or any public highway, road or alley,
or any dwelling or other structure used or occupied by any person, or in any standing or running
water or in any open excavation, and any animal deposited or allowed to remain upon such
premises is declared to be a public nuisance.
Prior Code 4- 41; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 030 Disposal of Dead Animals by Owner
It is the duty of the owner of a dead animal to dispose of such dead animal in a manner
authorized by law.
Prior Code 4- 42; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 040 Disposal of Dead Animals by Owner or Occupant of Property
It is the duty of the owner, the occupant and any person having control of any premises
on which there is a dead animal to remove such dead animal from such premises, or otherwise
dispose of such dead animal in a manner authorized by law.
Prior Code 4- 43; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 050 Removal and Disposal by City
A. In the event a dead animal is deposited or allowed to remain upon premises in
violation of this chapter, and the County Director of Public Health determines that, in the interest
6. 12 ( l) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
of protecting the public health, the City should forthwith remove and dispose of such dead
animal, the County Director of Public Health or any department of the City at the request of such
Director may remove and dispose of such animal.
B. In the event a dead animal is deposited or allowed to remain upon premises in
violation of this chapter, the owner of the dead animal, the owner of such premises, the occupant
of such premises and any other person having control of such premises who has knowledge of
the existence of such dead animal or who has received notice from the County Director of Public
Health requiring the removal of such dead animal shall be liable to the City for the cost of the
removal and disposal of such dead animal by the City. Such cost may be recovered by a civil
action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
Prior Code 4- 44; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 060 Burial of Dead Animals
No person shall bury the carcass of any dead animal in such a way that there is less than
three feet of soil above such carcass.
Prior Code 4- 45; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 12. 070 Collection and Transportation of Dead Animals
A. Any person desiring to engage in the business of collecting or conveying or
transporting dead animals along any public highways in the city, or who collects or so transports
such animals incidental to the operation of a business, shall annually make an application to the
County Department of Public Works for a separate permit for each vehicle in which dead animals
are to be transported or conveyed.
B. The Director of Public Works shall make an investigation to determine that such
vehicle to be used will be suitable to transport dead animals and that such vehicle has a
watertight body or watertight tank within which dead animals may be transported or conveyed. If
the Director of Public Works is satisfied that such applicant meets the requirements of this
chapter, he shall grant the applicant a permit to transport dead animals over any public highway
in the vehicle for which the permit is issued. The fee for such permit is $ 20 for each such
vehicle, which fee shall be paid and collected prior to the issuance of the permit.
C. Unless sooner revoked, every permit issued pursuant to this section expires
December 31 of the year in which it is issued. Each permit issued pursuant to this section shall
be displayed in a prominent place on the vehicle for which it is issued.
D. Vehicles used by a permittee to transport dead animals shall have watertight
metal bodies and any dead animals therein shall be covered with a tarpaulin or other cover
approved by the Director of Public Works. Such vehicles shall be cleaned and disinfected
immediately after dead animals are transported in such vehicle.
E. A permittee disposing of dead animals in the city shall dispose of such animals at
a reduction plant approved by the County Director of Public Health.
Prior Code 4- 46; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
6. 12 ( 2) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 6. 16
Bees
Sections:
6. 16. 010 Definitions
6. 16. 020 Chapter Supplements State Law
6. 16. 030 Location of Apiaries Restricted
6. 16. 040 Identification Signs Required for Certain Apiaries
6. 16. 050 Transportation of Bees
6. 16. 060 Fire Protection Requirements
6. 16. 070 Notice of Violations - Nuisance Abatement
6. 16. 080 Enforcement
Section 6. 16. 010 Definitions
Any word or phrase used in this chapter and not defined in this chapter has the meaning
established for such word or phrase by Chapter 3A, Division 2 of the Agricultural Code of the
state.
County Agricultural Commissioner" means and includes such commissioner and
regularly appointed employees of the County Department of Agriculture acting pursuant to his
instructions.
Prior Code 4- 47; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 020 Chapter Supplements State Law
This chapter shall in all respects be construed to supplement and harmonize with the
provisions of law of the state pertaining to bees and the beekeeping industry.
Prior Code 4- 48; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 030 Location of Apiaries Restricted
A. No person shall place or keep an apiary, or cause or allow an apiary to remain on
land not owned or possessed by such person without first obtaining the permission to do so of the
owner or person lawfully in possession of such lands.
B. No person shall place or keep an apiary, or cause or allow an apiary to remain,
closer than 600 feet to any house or building used as a dwelling, other than a house or building
owned or possessed by such person.
C. No person shall place or keep an apiary, or cause or allow an apiary to remain so
close to a public road as to constitute a nuisance or hazard to persons using such road, and in no
case shall an apiary be placed, kept or allowed to remain within 100 feet of the exterior line of the
traveled portion of a public road.
Prior Code 4- 49; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 040 Identification Signs Required for Certain Apiaries
Every person owning an apiary located on premises other than where he resides shall
identify such apiary by a sign prominently displayed on the entrance side of the apiary stating, in
black letters not less than one inch in height on a background of contrasting color, the name of
the owner or person in possession of the apiary, his address and telephone number, or, if he has
no telephone, a statement to that effect.
Prior Code 4- 50; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
6. 16 ( l) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 6. 16. 050 Transportation of Bees
No person shall transport hives of bees between sunrise and sunset, or cause the same to
be done, unless such bees are confined to the vehicle by which such transportation is
accomplished by screens or other equally effective means.
Prior Code 4- 51; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 060 Fire Protection Requirements
A. Firebreaks. Every person owning, possessing or controlling an apiary shall
maintain a firebreak not less than 30 feet wide around such apiary, which firebreak shall meet the
following specifications:
1. Within the 20 foot wide area closest to the apiary, a ten foot wide area shall
be cleared to mineral soil of all combustible material, and all flammable or combustible vegetation
or material shall be cut or trimmed to a height not greater than six inches above the ground
throughout the area of the apiary lying within the inside perimeter of such ten foot wide area.
2. Within the area 30 feet distant from the apiary and lying outside of the
outside perimeter of the ten foot wide area mentioned in paragraph 1 of this subsection, all
flammable or combustible vegetation or material shall be trimmed to a height not greater than 12
inches above the ground.
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this subsection shall not be construed to require the
cutting or removal of individual live trees, unless such cutting or removal is required in writing by
an officer or agency authorized to enforce this chapter.
B. Bee Smokers. A bee smoker, defined to mean an appliance utilizing smoke or fire
in aid of the manipulation or transportation of bees, shall be used, if at all, in accordance with the
following regulations:
1. The bee smoker shall be plugged while being transported to or from an
apiary with a metal or hardwood plug.
2. All burning or smoldering substances within the bee smoker shall be
completely extinguished with water before being transported to or from the apiary, or the bee
smoker containing such substances shall be carried in a container which is securely fastened to
the vehicle used for the transportation thereof.
3. The container shall be used for the transportation of the bee smoker at any
time that the bee smoker contains any burning or smoldering substance.
4. The container shall be metal and shall have a top or cover made of the
same material as the container, which shall be securely fastened in the closed position whenever
a bee smoker is being transported.
C. Firefighting Equipment. The following firefighting materials shall be maintained in
good working condition at all times when the apiary is attended by the keeper thereof, sufficiently
near the apiary so as immediately to be available in case of fire:
1. A shovel.
2. A fire extinguisher, of either the two and one- half gallon water- underpressure
type or the five gallon back pump type; provided, that a fire extinguisher, equally
effective as those above mentioned, may be used if written authority thereof is first obtained from
an officer or agency authorized to enforce this chapter.
Prior Code 4- 52; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 070 Notice of Violations - Nuisance Abatement
A. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be served with a written
notice to cease or remedy such violation by the County Agricultural Commissioner or by any law
enforcement officer of the City. Such notice shall require that such person cease or remedy the
6. 16 ( 2) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
violation within 48 hours. No person shall fail to cease or remedy the violation within such 48-
hour period. The notice required by this section shall be served personally on such person or, if
he cannot be readily found, shall be served by mail ( return receipt requested) or, if he cannot be
served by mail, then service shall be accomplished by posting such notice on a conspicuous
place on or near the apiary where the violation occurred. The 48- hour period for which such
notice provides shall commence to run from the time on the day such notice is served pursuant to
this section.
B. If the County Agricultural Commissioner determines that the violation of any
provision of this chapter constitutes a public nuisance to the extent that the health, safety or
welfare of the public is endangered through such violation, the Commissioner may forthwith take
such steps to abate such nuisance as to him seems necessary and proper in the circumstances;
provided, that the Commissioner shall not cause the destruction of any bees or any apiary unless
in his opinion the nuisance cannot otherwise be effectively and timely abated.
Prior Code 4- 53; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
Section 6. 16. 080 Enforcement
A. Any federal, state, district, county, or City officer or agency that is charged with
duties of fire prevention or control is authorized, within the geographical limits of its jurisdiction, to
enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to fire protection.
B. The County Agricultural Commissioner may enter upon any premises where bees
are kept, or upon which he has reason to believe that bees are kept, in order to carry into effect
the provisions of this chapter.
C. No person shall interfere with the official actions of the County Agricultural
Commissioner.
Prior Code 4- 54; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
6. 16 ( 3) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 7. 10
Cannabis Business Tax
Sections:
7. 10.005 Title
7. 10.010 General Tax
7. 10.015 Purpose of the Ordinance
7. 10.020 Definitions
7. 10.025 Tax Imposed
7. 10.030 Reporting and Remittance of Tax
7. 10.050 Non- Payment of Cannabis Business Tax; Penalties and Interest
7. 10.065 Exemptions from the Tax
7. 10.070 Administration of theTax
7. 10.085 Constitutionality and Legality
7. 10.090 Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment
7. 10.095 Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees or Charges
7. 10. 100 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Conduct
7. 10. 130 Conviction for Violation  Taxes Not Waived
7. 10. 135 Violation Deemed Misdemeanor Penalty
7. 10. 140 Remedies Cumulative
7. 10. 150 Amendment; City Council Plenary Authority
Section 7. 10.005 Title
This Chapter shall be known as the Cannabis Business Tax Ordinance and shall be
applicable in the City of Vista, California (" City").
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.010 General Tax
A. The purpose of this Chapter is to adopt a tax, for revenue purposes, pursuant to
Sections 37101 and 37100.5 of the California Government Code, upon Cannabis Businesses that
engage in business in the City. The Cannabis Business Tax is levied based upon business gross
receipts and square footage of plant Canopy. It is not a sales and use tax, a tax upon income, or
a tax upon real property.
B. The Cannabis Business Tax is a general tax enacted solely for general
governmental purposes of the City and not for specific purposes. All of the proceeds from the tax
imposed by this Chapter shall be placed in the City' s general fund and be available for any lawful
municipal expenditure.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.015 Purpose of the Ordinance
The intent of this Chapter is to levy a tax on Cannabis Businesses that may become legal
subsequent to the adoption of this Ordinance or that otherwise operate in the City. Nothing in this
Chapter shall be interpreted to authorize or permit any business activity that would not otherwise
be legal or permissible under laws applicable to the activity at the time the activity is undertaken.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
7. 10 ( l) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 7. 10.020 Definitions
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth below when used in
this Chapter. Words and phrases not specifically defined below shall have the meanings ascribed
to them elsewhere in this Code, or shall otherwise be defined by common usage. For definitions
of nouns, the singular shall also include the plural; for definitions of verbs, all verb conjugations
shall be included. Any references to State Laws, including references to any California statutes
or regulations, is deemed to include any successor or amended version of the referenced statute
or regulations promulgated thereunder consistent with the terms of this Chapter.
Adult-Use Cannabis" or " Adult-Use Cannabis Product" means Cannabis or
Cannabis Products for individuals 21 years of age and over without the need for a physician' s
recommendation.
Business" means all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in within the City,
including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation, vocation, calling,
or livelihood, whether or not carried on for gain or profit, but shall not include the services rendered
by an employee to that employee' s employer.
Cannabis" means, except as specified herein, all parts of the Cannabis sativa Linnaeus,
Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin,
whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or resin. " Cannabis" also means
the separated resin, whether crude or purified, obtained from cannabis. " Cannabis" does not
include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
the mature stalks ( except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed
of the plant which is incapable of germination. For the purpose of this Chapter, "Cannabis" does
not mean " industrial hemp" as defined by Section 11018.5 of the California Health and Safety
Code.
Cannabis Concentrate" means Cannabis that has undergone a process to concentrate
one or more active cannabinoids, thereby increasing the product's potency. Resin from granular
trichomes from a cannabis plant is a concentrate for purposes of this division. Cannabis
Concentrate does not include any product intended for oral ingestion by the final consumer. A
Cannabis Concentrate is not considered food, as defined by Section 109935 of the Health and
Safety Code, or drug, as defined by Section 109925 of the Health and Safety Code.
Cannabis Product" means Cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the plant
material has been concentrated and, with or without the addition of ingredients, been transformed
into a product for sale. Cannabis Products include but are not limited to: Cannabis Concentrate,
Edible Cannabis Products, Topical Cannabis, or an inhalant containing Cannabis or Cannabis
Product.
Cannabis Business" or " Commercial Cannabis Business" means any business or
operation which engages in Medicinal or Adult-Use Commercial Cannabis Activity whether or not
carried on for gain or profit.
Cannabis Business Tax" or " Marijuana Business Tax" means the tax due pursuant
to this Chapter for engaging in commercial cannabis or marijuana business in the City.
Canopy" means the designated area(s) at a City licensed premises, except nurseries,
that contain growing or mature Cannabis plants at any point in time. The Canopy for each
premises shall be calculated in square feet and measured using clearly identifiable boundaries of
all area( s) that will contain growing or mature plants at any point in time, including any and all
space(s) within such boundaries. The Canopy for any premises may be noncontiguous provided
that each unique area included in the total Canopy calculation for any premises shall be separated
by an identifiable boundary. Identifiable boundaries may include, but are not limited to: interior
7. 10 (2) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
walls, shelves, greenhouse walls, hoop house walls, or fencing. If plants are being cultivated using
a shelving system, the surface of each level shall be included in the total Canopy calculation.
City Attorney" means the City Attorney of the City of Vista, or the City Attorney' s
designee.
City Manager" means the City Manager of the City of Vista, or the City Manager's
designee.
Commercial Cannabis Activity" means the commercial cultivation, possession,
manufacture, distribution, processing, storing, laboratory testing, packaging, labeling,
transportation, delivery or sale of Cannabis or Cannabis Products.
Code" means the City of Vista Municipal Code, inclusive of the Development Code.
Commercial Cannabis Cultivation" means cultivation conducted by, for, or as part of
a Commercial Cannabis Activity.
Commercial Cannabis Business Permit" means a regulatory permit issued by the City
of Vista pursuant to Title 7 to a commercial cannabis business, and is required before any
Commercial Cannabis Activity may be conducted in the City. The initial permit and annual renewal
of a commercial cannabis business permit is made expressly contingent upon the business'
ongoing compliance with all of the requirements of the Vista Municipal Code and any regulations
adopted by the City governing the Commercial Cannabis Activity at issue.
Cultivation" means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying,
curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis.
Customer" means an individual 21 years of age or over, or an individual 18 years of age
or older who possesses a physician' s recommendation.
Delivery" means the commercial transfer of cannabis or cannabis products to a
Customer. Delivery also includes the use by a retailer of any technology platform owned and
controlled by the retailer.
Distribution" means the procurement, sale, and/ or transport of cannabis and cannabis
products between licensees.
Employee" means each person who renders any service, with or without compensation,
for the owner, permittee, or agent of either an owner or permittee of a Commercial Cannabis
Business. For purposes of this Chapter, the term Employee shall include part-time, full- time,
temporary, or regular employees.
Engaged in Business as a Cannabis Business" means the commencing, conducting,
operating, managing or carrying on of a cannabis business and the exercise of corporate or
franchise powers, whether done as owner, or by means of an officer, agent, manager, employee,
or otherwise, whether operating from a fixed location in the City or coming into the City from an
outside location to engage in such activities. A person shall be deemed engaged in business
within the City if:
1. Such person or person' s employee maintains a fixed place of business
within the City for the benefit or partial benefit of such person;
2. Such person or person' s employee owns or leases real property within the
City for business purposes;
3. Such person or person' s employee regularly maintains a stock of tangible
personal property in the City for sale in the ordinary course of business;
4. Such person or person' s employee regularly conducts solicitation of
business within the City; or
5. Such person or person' s employee performs work or renders services in
the City.
The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the meaning of " engaged in
business."
Evidence of Doing Business" means evidence such as, without limitation, use of signs,
circulars, cards or any other advertising media, including the use of internet or telephone
7. 10 (3) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
solicitation, or representation to a government agency or to the public that such person is engaged
in a cannabis business in the City.
Fiscal Year" means July 1 through June 30 of the following calendar year.
Gross Receipts" means, except as otherwise specifically provided, whether designated
a sales price, royalty, rent, commission, dividend, or other designation, the total amount( including
all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or nature) received or payable for sales of
goods, wares or merchandise or for the performance of any act or service of any nature for which
a charge is made or credit allowed ( whether such service, act or employment is done as part of
or in connection with the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or not), without any deduction
therefrom on account of the cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service
costs, interest paid or payable, losses or any other expense whatsoever. However, the following
shall be excluded from Gross Receipts:
1. Cash discounts where allowed and taken on sales;
2. Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price
and collected from the consumer or purchaser;
3. Such part of the sale price of any property returned by purchasers to the
seller as refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit allowances or return of refundable
deposits previously included in gross receipts;
4. Receipts derived from the occasional sale of used, obsolete or surplus
trade fixtures, machinery or other equipment used by the taxpayer in the regular course of the
taxpayer's business;
5. Cash value of sales, trades or transactions between departments or units
of the same business;
6. Whenever there are included within the gross receipts amounts which
reflect sales for which credit is extended and such amount proved uncollectible in a subsequent
year, those amounts may be excluded from the gross receipts in the year they prove to be
uncollectible; provided, however, if the whole or portion of such amounts excluded as uncollectible
are subsequently collected they shall be included in the amount of gross receipts for the period
when they are recovered;
7. Receipts of refundable deposits, except that such deposits when forfeited
and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded when in excess of one dollar;
8. Retail sales of t-shirts, sweaters, hats, stickers, key chains, bags, books,
posters or other personal tangible property which the Tax Administrator has excluded in writing
by issuing an administrative ruling per Section 5. 94.070 shall not be subject to the cannabis
business tax under this chapter. However, any business activities not subject to this Chapter as
a result of the administrative ruling shall be subject to the appropriate business tax provisions of
Chapter 5. 04 or any other Chapter or Title as determined by the Tax Administrator.
Manufacture" means to compound, blend, extract, infuse, or otherwise make or prepare
a cannabis product.
Medicinal Cannabis" or " Medicinal Cannabis Product" means Cannabis or a
Cannabis Product for use pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996 ( Proposition 215),
found at Section 11362. 5 of the California Health and Safety Code, by a medicinal cannabis
patient in California who possesses a physician' s recommendation.
Nursery" means a person that produces only clones, immature plants, seeds, and other
agricultural products used specifically for the planting, propagation, and cultivation of cannabis.
Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation,
limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit, whether organized as a nonprofit or for-profit entity, and includes
the plural as well as the singular number.
Retailer" means a Person that offers Cannabis, Cannabis Products, or devices for the
use thereof, either individually or in any combination, for retail sale to Persons.
7. 10 (4) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Sale" means any sale, exchange, or barter or other transaction for any consideration.
Square Foot" or " Square Footage" means the maximum amount of Canopy for
commercial cannabis cultivation authorized by a City permit issued to a person engaging in
commercial cannabis business shall be the basis for the tax base for cultivation.
State" means the State of California.
State Laws" means the laws of the State of California, which includes, but are not limited
to, California Health and Safety Code Sections 11000, et seq.; California Health and Safety
Sections 11362. 1 through 11362.45; California Health and Safety Code Section 11362. 5
Compassionate Use Act of 1996); California Health and Safety Code Sections 11362. 7, et seq.
Medical Marijuana Program); California Health and Safety Code Sections 26000, et seq.
Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (" MAUCRSA")); the California
Attorney General' s Guidelines for the Security and Non- Diversion of Marijuana Grown for Medical
Use issued in August, 2008, as such guidelines may be revised from time to time by action of the
Attorney General; California Labor Code Section 147. 5; California Revenue and Taxation Code
Sections 31020 and 34010 through 34021. 5; California Fish and Game Code Section 12029;
California Water Code Section 13276; all State regulations adopted pursuant to MAUCRSA; and
all other applicable laws of the State of California.
State License" or " License" means a license issued by the State of California, or one
of its departments or divisions, pursuant to California Business & Professions Code Section
26000, et seq., and any subsequent State of California legislation regarding the same, to engage
in Commercial Cannabis Activity.
Tax Administrator" means the Director of Finance of the City of Vista, the Director of
Finance' s designee(s), or any other City officer charged with the administration of the provisions
of this Chapter.
Testing Laboratory" means a facility, entity, or site in the state that offers or performs
testing of cannabis or cannabis products and that is both of the following:
1. Accredited by an accrediting body that is independent from all other
persons involved in the Cannabis industry in the State; and
2. Licensed by the State.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.025 Tax Imposed
A. There is established and imposed upon each person who is engaged in business
as a cannabis business an annual Cannabis Business Tax at the rates set forth in this Chapter.
Such tax is payable regardless of whether the business has been issued a permit to operate
lawfully in the city or is operating unlawfully. The City's acceptance of a cannabis business tax
payment from a cannabis business operating illegally will not constitute the City' s approval or
consent to such illegal operations.
B. Medicinal Retailing. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who engages
in business in the City as a retail Medicinal Cannabis business shall be at the following annual
rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be five percent
5%) of the gross receipts. Such tax rate may increase or decrease by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the City Council but shall not exceed the maximum tax rate of ten percent ( 10%)
without voter approval.
C. Adult-use Retailing. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who engages
in business in the City as a retail adult-use commercial cannabis business shall be at the following
annual rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be six percent
6%) of the gross receipts. Such tax rate may increase or decrease by ordinance or resolution
7. 10 (5) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
adopted by the City Council but shall not exceed the maximum tax rate of twelve percent ( 12%)
without voter approval.
D. Manufacturing. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who engages in
business in the City as a commercial manufacturing cannabis business shall be at the following
annual rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be four percent
4%) of the gross receipts. Such tax rate may increase or decrease by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the City Council but shall not exceed the maximum tax rate of eight percent ( 8%)
without voter approval.
E. Distribution. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who engages in
business in the City as a commercial cannabis distribution business shall be at the following
annual rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be two percent
2%) of the gross receipts. Such tax rate may increase or decrease by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the City Council but shall not exceed the maximum tax rate of eight percent ( 8%)
without voter approval.
F. Testing. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who engages in business
in the City as a cannabis testing laboratory shall be at the following annual rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be one percent
1%) of the gross receipts. Such tax rate may increase or decrease by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the City Council but shall not exceed the maximum tax rate of three and one- half
percent (3.5%) without voter approval.
G. Cultivation. The Cannabis Business Tax upon every person who is engaged in
commercial cannabis cultivation in the City shall be at the following annual rate:
1. The tax rate upon the effective date of this ordinance, through June 30,
2020, shall be fourteen dollars ($ 14.00) per square foot of Canopy space.
2. Effective July 1, 2020, and on July 1 of each succeeding fiscal year
thereafter, the tax rate per square foot of Canopy space shall increase from the tax rate effective
in the prior fiscal year by the percentage change between January of the calendar year prior to
such increase and January of the calendar year of the increase in the Consumer Price Index
CPI") for All Urban Consumers in the San DiegoCarlsbad, CA, area as published by the United
States Government Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, no CPI adjustment resulting in a
decrease of any tax imposed by this subsection shall be made.
3. For purposes of this Subsection G the square feet of Canopy space for a
business shall be rebuttably presumed to be the maximum square footage of Canopy allowed by
the business' s City permit for commercial cannabis cultivation.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.030 Reporting and Remittance of Tax
The Cannabis Business Tax imposed by this Chapter shall be imposed on a fiscal year
basis and shall be due and payable in quarterly installments as follows:
A. Each person owning a Cannabis Business shall, on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each fiscal year quarter, prepare and submit a tax statement on the
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator and remit to the Tax Administrator the tax due. The tax
due shall be no less than the quarterly installment due, but the taxpayer may at any time pay the
tax due for the entire fiscal year.
B. Tax statements and payments for all outstanding taxes owed to the City are
immediately due to the Tax Administrator upon cessation of business for any reason.
7. 10 (6) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The Tax Administrator may, at the Tax Administrator's discretion, establish shorter
reporting and payment periods for any taxpayer as the Tax Administrator deems necessary to
insure collection of the tax.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.050 Non- Payment of Cannabis Business Tax; Penalties and Interest
A. Any person who fails or refuses to pay any Cannabis Business Tax required to be
paid pursuant to this Chapter on or before the due date shall pay penalties and interest as follows:
1. A penalty equal to ten percent ( 10%) of the amount of the tax, in addition
to the amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax calculated from the due date of the tax at
the rate of one percent ( 1. 0%) per month.
2. If the tax remains unpaid for a period exceeding one calendar month
beyond the due date, an additional penalty equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of
the tax, plus interest at the rate of one percent ( 1. 0%) per month on the unpaid tax and on the
unpaid penalties.
3. These penalty provisions shall not be construed to preclude or limit the
enforcement of the penal provisions of this Chapter.
B. Whenever a check or electronic payment is submitted in payment of a Cannabis
Business Tax and the payment is subsequently returned unpaid by the bank for any reason, the
taxpayer will be liable for the tax amount due plus any fees, penalties and interest as provided for
in this Chapter, and any other amount allowed under state law.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.065 Exemptions from the Tax
A. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personal cannabis cultivation as
defined in the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (MAUCRSA) or any
subsequent state legislation regarding the same. This Chapter shall not apply to personal use of
cannabis that is specifically exempted from state licensing requirements, that meets the definition
of personal use or equivalent terminology under state law, and for which the individual receives
no compensation whatsoever related to that personal use.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.070 Administration of the Tax
A. It shall be the duty of the Tax Administrator to collect the taxes, penalties, fees,
and perform the duties required by this Chapter.
B. The City Council shall cause to be promulgated all municipal ordinances,
resolutions, and all other administrative rules, regulations and standards governing Cannabis
Business Taxation under this Chapter, including, without limitation:
1. Payments and Delinquencies;
2. Notices;
3. Refunds;
4. Recordkeeping and Audit Requirements;
5. Apportionment;
6. Deficiencies;
7. Assessments; and
8. Appeals.
C. In addition to any regulations adopted by the City Council, the City Manager is
authorized to establish, consistent with the terms of this Chapter, any additional administrative
7. 10 (7) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
rules, regulations and standards governing the administration of Cannabis Taxes; operational
rules and regulations, and any other subject determined to be necessary to carry out the purposes
of this Chapter.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.085 Constitutionality and Legality
This tax is intended to be applied in a manner consistent with the United States
Constitution and state law. None of the tax provided for by this Chapter shall be applied in a
manner that causes an undue burden upon interstate commerce, a violation of the equal
protection and due process clauses of the Constitution of the United States or the State of
California, or a violation of any other provision of the Vista Charter or state law.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.090 Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment
A. The Tax Administrator shall have the power, enforceable by subpoena, to audit
and examine all books, records, accounts, inventory and onsite operations of persons engaged
in cannabis businesses specific to the Cannabis Business, including examination of both state
and federal income tax returns, sales tax returns, or other evidence documenting the gross
receipts of persons engaged in cannabis businesses, and, where necessary, all equipment, of
any person engaged in cannabis businesses in the City, for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount of Cannabis Business Tax, if any, required to be paid by the provisions hereof, and for
the purpose of verifying any statements or any item thereof when filed by any person pursuant to
this Chapter.
B. It shall be the duty of every person liable for the collection and payment to the City
of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of the later of four years
from the due date of the return or the date the return is filed, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of such tax as that person may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the City, which records the Tax Administrator or his/ her duly authorized designee shall
have the right to inspect at all reasonable times. All records for any period being audited by the
City shall be retained until the audit is complete.
C. Authorities designated by the City Manager or the City Attorney may examine the
records of the Cannabis Business and inspect the premises of the Cannabis Business as the City
Manager or City Attorney deems necessary to enforce any of the provisions of this Chapter. All
inspections and examinations of the premises and records shall be conducted during standard
business hours of the Cannabis Business or at any other reasonable time. Cannabis Businesses
shall provide access to the premises and deliver records to the designated authorities upon
request.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10.095 Other Licenses, Permits, Taxes, Fees or Charges
A Cannabis Business subject to the provisions of this Ordinance shall also be subject to
the business tax requirements defined in Chapter 5. 04 of the Vista Municipal Code. Nothing
contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to repeal, amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way
affect any requirements for any permit or license required by, under or by virtue of any other
provision of this Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the City, nor be deemed to repeal,
amend, be in lieu of, replace or in any way affect any tax, fee or other charge imposed, assessed
or required by, under or by virtue of any other Chapter of this Code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the City. Any references made or contained in any other Chapter of this code to any
7. 10 (8) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
licenses, license taxes, fees, or charges, or to any schedule of license fees, shall be deemed to
refer to the licenses, license taxes, fees or charges, or schedule of license fees, provided for in
other Chapters of this code.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10. 100 Payment of Tax Does Not Authorize Unlawful Conduct
A. The payment of a Cannabis Business Tax required by this Chapter, and its
acceptance by the City, shall not entitle any person to carry on any cannabis business unless the
person has complied with all of the requirements of this Code and all other applicable State Laws.
B. No tax paid under the provisions of this Chapter shall be construed as authorizing
the conduct or continuance of any illegal or unlawful business, or any business in violation of any
local or state law.
C. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as authorizing or condoning any actions
that violate federal, state or local law with respect to the operation of a Commercial Cannabis
Business.
D. It shall be the responsibility of the City Licensees, owners, officers, and managers
of a Commercial Cannabis Business to ensure that a Commercial Cannabis Business is, at all
times, operating in a manner compliant with the protection of public health, safety and community
standards, including all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including any
subsequently enacted state or local law or regulatory, licensing, or certification standards or
requirements, and any specific, additional operating procedures or requirements which may be
imposed as conditions of approval of a State License or a City License.
E. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Chapter incorporates the
requirements and procedures set forth in State Laws. In the event of a conflict between the
provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of State Laws or any other applicable state or local
law, the more restrictive provision shall control. To the extent allowed by State Law, the City shall
have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce all applicable State Laws.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10. 130 Conviction for Violation  Taxes Not Waived
The conviction and punishment of any person for failure to pay the required tax shall not
excuse or exempt such person from any civil action for the tax debt unpaid at the time of such
conviction. No civil action shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the provisions
of this Chapter or of any state law requiring the payment of all taxes.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10. 135 Violation Deemed Misdemeanor- Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable therefore as provided in Chapter 1. 16 of this Code.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 7. 10. 140 Remedies Cumulative
The penalties set forth in this Chapter are cumulative and in addition to all other remedies,
violations, and penalties set forth in the City' s Code, or in any other ordinance, laws, rules or
regulations of the City, County, or the State of California.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
7. 10 (9) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 7. 10. 150 Amendment; City Council Plenary Authority
A. This Chapter may be amended by the City Council without a vote of the people to
the extent allowed by law. However, as required by Title XI II C of the California Constitution, voter
approval is required for any amendment that would increase, beyond the limits specified in this
Chapter, the rate of any tax levied pursuant to this Chapter. The people of the City of Vista affirm
that the following actions shall not constitute an increase of the rate of a tax:
1. Increasing the rate of a tax within the limits specified in this Chapter;
2. Restoring the rate of a tax to a rate that is no higher than that set by this
Chapter, if the City Council has acted previously to reduce the rate of the tax;
3. An action that interprets or clarifies the methodology of the tax, or any
definition applicable to the tax, including the definition of cannabis, so long as interpretation or
clarification ( even if contrary to some prior interpretation or clarification) is not inconsistent with
the language of this Chapter; or
4. The collection of a tax imposed by this Chapter, even if the City had, for
some period of time, failed to collect the tax.
B. Notwithstanding any other provision of another voter approved initiative measure,
the City Council shall have plenary authority to establish, modify, and maintain all municipal
ordinances, resolutions, and all other administrative rules, regulations and standards governing
the issuance, denial, or renewal of City Licenses, including without limitation, the number, types,
and locations thereof, if any; the City's oversight of the ongoing operation of Commercial
Cannabis Businesses; operational rules and regulations, and any other subject determined to be
necessary to regulate or prohibit the legal or illegal sale of cannabis in the City of Vista.
Measure AA, Added 12/ 11/ 18)
7. 10 ( 10) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.04
County Health and Sanitation Regulations Adopted
Sections:
8. 04.010 Adoption of County Sanitation Regulations for Businesses
8. 04.020 Adoption of San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances, Relating to
Health and Sanitation and Land Use Fees
8. 04.030 Nonpayment of Fees
8. 04.040 Violation - Penalty*
Section 8. 04.010 Adoption of County Sanitation Regulations for Businesses
There is hereby adopted by the City Council of the City of Vista, San Diego, State of
California for the purpose of regulating sanitation for businesses, that certain code known as the
San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances, relating to sanitation regulations for
businesses, consisting of Title 6, Division 6, Chapters 1, 3, 4, 8, 9 and 10, except that Article 3
of Chapter 3 is not adopted. One copy of the County Code of the Regulatory Ordinances has
been and is now filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and is adopted and incorporated as though
fully set out at length in this chapter. From the date on which the ordinance codified in this
section takes effect, the provisions thereof are controlling within the limits of the City.
Prior Code 14- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63; Ord. No. 90-45,
Amended, 12/ 17/ 90; Ord. No. 2010- 1, Amended, 3/ 9/ 10)
Section 8. 04.020 Adoption of San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
Relating to Health and Sanitation and Land Use Fees
There is hereby adopted by the City Council of the City of Vista, San Diego County,
State of California, for the purpose of prescribing regulation governing health and sanitation and
land use fees, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory
Ordinances, Section 65. 104 to 65. 107, relating to health and sanitation and land use fees.
One copy of the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances has been and is now
filed in the Office of the City Clerk of the City of Vista, and it is hereby adopted and incorporated
as though fully set out at length herein. From the date on which this ordinance shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City of Vista.
Prior Code 14- 2. 1, Ord. No. 89- 38, Amended 10/ 30/89; Ord. No. 90- 35, Amended 9/ 24/ 90; Ord. No. 90-
45, Amended, 12/ 17/ 90; Ord. No. 91- 28, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 8. 04.030 Nonpayment of Fees
A. Any fee which is not paid by the last day of the month following the month in
which it was due is 30 days delinquent, and on the last day of the next following month, if still
unpaid, is 60 days delinquent.
B. When a fee is 30 days delinquent, a penalty of $ 50 or an amount equal to 50
percent of the fee, whichever is less, shall be added to and collected with the required fee.
C. When a fee is 60 days delinquent, a penalty of $ 100, or an amount equal to 100
percent of the fee, whichever is less, will be added to and collected with the required fee. The
maximum penalty which may be assessed under Subsections B and C of this section is $ 150 or
an amount equal to 150 percent of the fee, whichever is less.
8. 04 ( l) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
D. The imposition of or payment of the penalty imposed by this section does not
prevent the imposition of any other penalty prescribed by this code or any ordinance nor
prosecution for violation of this code or any ordinance.
Prior Code 14- 2. 2; Ord. No. 89- 38, Amended 10/ 30/ 89; Ord. No. 90- 45, Amended, 12/ 17/ 90)
Section 8. 04.040 Violation - Penalty*
A. Except as provided in Subsection B of this section, any person violating any
provision of Chapter 1, 4, 8 and 10 of Division 6 of Title 6 of the County Code is deemed guilty
of an infraction.
B. A person convicted of a third or subsequent violation of Chapter 1, 4, 8 and 10 of
Division 6 of Title 6 of the County Code within two years from the date of the first conviction is
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
C. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
D. Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by Chapter 5
of Division 6 of Title 6 of the County Code, whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of
the owner, operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere helper for the
owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or worker in any way, who gives
massages" or conducts " a massage establishment" or practices the giving or administering of
any of the services defined in Section 66.504 of the County Code, without first obtaining the
necessary permit or license, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon a conviction under this
subsection, the court shall, in addition to any other punishment it imposes, impose a fine of
100 dollars, no part of which shall be suspended.
E. Any owner, operator, manager or permittee in charge or in control of a massage
establishment and/ or off-premises massage business who knowingly employs a person
performing as a massage technician, as defined in Chapter 5 of Division 6 of Title 6 of the
County Code, who is not in possession of a valid, unrevoked permit or who allows such
massage technician to perform, operate or practice within such place of business is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
1, 000 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six months or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Upon a conviction under this subsection, the court shall, in
addition to any other punishment it imposed, impose a fine of $ 200, no part of which shall be
suspended.
Editor's Note: See also Chapter 5.56 for other penalty provisions relating to massage
establishments.
Prior Code 14- 2A; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 90- 45, Amended, 12/ 17/ 90)
8. 04 ( 2) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.08
County Disease Control Regulations Adopted
Sections:
8. 08.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Disease Control
8. 08.020 Violation - Penalty
Section 8. 08.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Disease Control
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of disease control, that certain
code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances, Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of
Division 4 of Title 6, relating to disease control. One copy of the County Code is filed in the
Office of the City Clerk, and it is adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length in
this chapter. From the date on which the ordinance codified in this section takes effect, the
provisions thereof are controlling within the limits of the city.
Prior Code 14- 1; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1- 28- 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 2- 15- 63; Ord. No. 90- 16,
Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8. 08.020 Violation - Penalty
A. Except as provided in Subsection B of this section, any person violating any
provision of Chapter 1 of Division 4 of Title 6 of the County Code is deemed guilty of an
infraction.
B. A person convicted of a third or subsequent violation of Chapter 1 of Division 4 of
Title 6 of the County Code within two years from the date of the first conviction is deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
C. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
D. Any person who creates, allows, suffers, or maintains a public nuisance as
defined by Section 64. 201 of the County Code is guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in
Sections 11. 116, 11. 117 and 11. 118 of the County Code.
Prior Code 14- 1. A; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
8. 08 ( l) Vista 2/ 19/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 10
Wholesale Food
Warehouses
Sections:
8. 10.010 Wholesale Food Warehouses
The provisions of the County Code of Regulatory Ordinances concerning permitting and
regulation of wholesale food warehouses, codified as Sections 61. 212 through 61. 256 of the
County Code, are incorporated in this code by reference.
Ord. No. 2003- 13, Added, 05/ 13/ 03)
8. 10 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 12
Smoking in Public Places
Sections:
8. 12. 010 Purpose
8. 12. 020 Definitions
8. 12. 030 Prohibitions
8. 12. 040 Exceptions Areas Where Smoking is Permitted
8. 12. 050 Posting of Signs
8. 12. 060 Retaliation Against Persons Requesting Compliance Prohibited
8. 12. 070 Penalties and Enforcement
Section 8. 12. 010 Purpose
Because smoking of tobacco, or any other weed or plant, is a positive danger to health
and a cause of material annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort and a health hazard to those who
are present in confined places, and in order to serve public health, safety and welfare, the
declared purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the smoking of tobacco, or any other weed or plant,
in public places, places of employment, and controlled locations in accordance with this Chapter.
Prior Code 14- 31; Ord. No. 89- 49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 92- 6, Amended 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 2013- 17,
Amended 8/ 13/ 13)
Section 8. 12. 020 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall apply:
Smoke" or " Smoking" means ( 1) the carrying or tending of a lighted pipe, lighted cigar,
or lighted cigarette composed of any combustible substance of any kind, or the lighting of a pipe,
cigar, or cigarette composed of any combustible substance of any kind; or ( 2) the carrying or use
of an activated or functioning electronic or battery-operated device, the use of which may
resemble smoking ( commonly known as " vaping"), which can be used to deliver an inhaled dose
of nicotine or other substances. Electronic smoking device includes any such device, whether
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an
electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other product name or
descriptor. Electronic smoking device does not include any product specifically approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for use in the mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease.
Place of Employment" means any area which is a place of employment for purposes of
Section 6405.5 of the Labor Code.
Public Place" means ( 1) Any enclosed area, other than a place of employment and
those locations subject to the Section 8. 12.040, to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including, but not limited to, restaurants, retail stores, retail service establishments,
restrooms, theatres, waiting rooms, reception areas, educational facilities, health facilities and
public transportation facilities; or ( 2) Any area within the boundary of the Civic Center Complex,
Wave Water Park, the Public Library or an immediately adjacent parking lot owned by the City and
serving those facilities, except within a designated smoking area. For the purpose of this section,
the term " boundary" shall mean the interior edge of the public sidewalk, but not including the
sidewalk adjacent to the public or private street surrounding the Civic Center Complex, Wave
Water Park, or Public Library or an immediately adjacent parking lot owned by the City and
serving those
8. 12 ( l) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
facilities. For those areas of the Civic Center Complex, Wave Water Park, Public Library, or an
immediately adjacent parking lot owned by the City where no public or private street abuts, the
boundary shall be designated by a boundary fence.
Designated Smoking Area" means an outdoor area, designated by the City Manager,
within the Civic Center Complex, the Public Library or an associated and immediately adjacent
parking lot owned by the City serving those facilities which is: ( 1) identified by conspicuous
signage, and ( 2), which is at least 20 feet away from any doorway or window that opens to the
outdoors.
Controlled Location" means any of the following enclosed locations: ( 1) warehouse
facilities covered by Labor Code Section 6404.5( d)( 6); ( 2) tobacco shops and lounges; ( 3) any
portion of a lobby for a hotel, motel or similar establishment that is subject to exclusion from a
place of employment under Labor Code Section 6404.5( d)( 2); ( 4) any meeting or banquet
rooms within a hotel, motel, or a similar establishment that is subject to exclusion from a place
of employment under Labor Code Section 6404.5( d)( 2); and ( 5) any small business that is
potentially excluded from the definition of place of employment by Labor Code Section
6404. 5( d)( 14).
Prior Code 14- 31; Ord. No. 89- 49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 92- 6, Amended 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 2009- 18,
Amended, 9/ 22/ 09; Ord. No. 2013- 17, Amended 8/ 13/ 13; Ord. No. 2013- 19, Amended 10/ 22/ 13; Ord. No.
2014- 15, Amended, 06/ 24/ 14)
Section 8. 12. 030 Prohibitions
A. No person shall smoke in a public place, a controlled location, or place of
employment, except in designated smoking areas as defined in Section 8. 12. 040.
B. No ashtrays or smoking disposal receptacles shall be placed in areas where
smoking is prohibited.
Prior Code 14- 31. 3; Ord. No. 89- 49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 92- 6, Amended 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 2013-
17, Amended 8/ 13/ 13)
Section 8. 12. 040 Exceptions - Areas Where Smoking is Permitted
The following areas are exempt from the mandatory no- smoking provisions of this
chapter, and permit smoking.
A. Private residences, except private residences licensed as family day care homes,
during hours of operation as a family day care home.
B. Guestroom accommodations in a hotel, motel, or similar transient lodging
establishment, if approved by the management of that facility, but not to exceed forty percent of
all available guestroom accommodations.
C. Employee break rooms designated by an employer for smoking, provided that all
requirements of Labor Code section 6404.5( d)( 13) are satisfied.
D. Cabs of motor trucks or truck tractors, as defined in the Vehicle Code, if no
nonsmoking employees are present.
E. Patient smoking areas in long- term health care facilities, approved by the
management of the facility, as defined in Section 1418 of the Health and Safety Code.
F. Theatrical production sites, if smoking is an integral part of the story in the
theatrical production, if approved by the management of the facility.
G. Medical research or treatment sites, if smoking is an integral to any research and
treatment being conducted, if approved by the management of the facility.
Prior Code 14- 31. 5; Ord. No. 89-49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2013- 17, Amended and Renumbered
8/ 13/ 13)
8. 12 ( 2) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 12. 050 Posting of Signs
A. Where smoking is prohibited throughout an entire building and in all theatres, a
sign stating " No smoking" shall be posted at each entrance to the building or theatre.
B. Where smoking is permitted in designated areas of a building: ( 1) a sign stating
Smoking is prohibited, except is designated areas" shall be posted at each entrance to the
building; ( 2) the area where smoking is permitted shall be posted each entry to that area with a
sign stating " Designated smoking area except for guestrooms covered by the following clause";
and ( 3) for hotels or motels which allowed smoking in select guest rooms as permitted by this
Chapter, a sign shall be posted in each such guestroom which shall substantially read
Designated smoking room" with an additional notice advising the guest that smoking may only
occur within that room.
C. Employers shall provide written information to employees concerning smoking at the
place of employment, including the location of designated smoking areas, if any.
D. The manner of such posting, including the wording, size, color design and place of
posting, whether on the walls, doors, tables, counters, stands or elsewhere, shall be at the
discretion of the owner, operator, manager or other person having control of such room, building
or other place so long as clarity, sufficiency, and conspicuousness are apparent in communicating
the intent of this chapter.
Prior Code 14- 31; Ord. No. 89-49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2013- 17, Amended and Renumbered
8/ 13/ 13)
Section 8. 12. 060 Retaliation against Persons Requesting Compliance Prohibited
No person shall intimidate or threaten any reprisal or effect any reprisal for the purpose of
retaliating against another person because such other person seeks to attain compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 14- 31; Ord. No. 89-49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2013- 17, Amended and Renumbered
8/ 13/ 13)
Section 8. 12. 070 Penalties and Enforcement
A. Each incident of smoking in violation of this chapter is punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code, or in alternative by the administrative code enforcement remedies of
Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
B. Except as otherwise provided, enforcement of this chapter is at the sole
discretion of the persons authorized to enforce this chapter pursuant to Chapters 1. 13 and 1. 16
of this code. Nothing in this chapter shall create a right of action in any person against the city or
its agents for damages or to compel public enforcement of this chapter against private parties.
C. Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the ability of any party to issue citations or to
enforce any provision of state law prohibiting smoking.
D. Labor Code section 6404. 5, and not this Chapter, applies to the smoking of
tobacco products in a place of employment and violations of that statute will be cited pursuant to
that authority, not pursuant to this Chapter.
E. The owner, operator, or manager of any public place, controlled location, or place
of employment shall inform any person who violates this chapter by smoking in a public place or
place of employment not designated as a smoking area, of the provisions of this chapter and
may refuse services or sales to such persons or effect disciplinary actions.
F. The City Manager or his designee shall be responsible for compliance with this
chapter when facilities which are owned, operated, or leased by the City of Vista are involved.
8. 12 ( 3) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 14- 31; Ord. No. 89-49, Enacted 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 92- 6, Amended, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 2013-
17, Amended and Renumbered 8/ 13/ 13)
8. 12 ( 4) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 16
Access to and Possession of Smoking Materials by Minors
Sections:
8. 16.005 Definitions
8. 16.010 Minor Possessing Smoking Materials  Prohibited
8. 16.015 Retail Sale of Smoking Materials by Minors
8. 16.030 Prohibition of Sale of Smoking Materials by Vending Machine
8. 16.035 Retail Sale of Smoking Materials
8. 16.038 Sale of Single Cigarettes Prohibited
8. 16.040 Violation  Penalty
Section 8. 16. 005 Definitions
Electronic Smoking Device" means an electronic and/ or battery-operated device, the
use of which may resemble smoking, which can be used to deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine
or other substances. Electronic smoking device includes any such device, whether
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic cigar, an
electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other product name or
descriptor. Electronic smoking device does not include any product specifically approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for use in the mitigation, treatment, or prevention of
disease.
Electronic Smoking Device Paraphernalia" means cartridges, cartomizers, e- liquid,
smoke juice, tips, atomizers, electronic smoking device batteries, electronic smoking device
chargers, and any other item specifically designed for the preparation, charging, or use of
electronic smoking devices.
Smoking Materials" means ( 1) tobacco in any form; ( 2) cigars, cigarettes and pipe
fillers composed of any combustible substance of any kind; ( 3) an electronic smoking device;
and ( 4) electronic smoking device paraphernalia.
Smoking Materials Vending Machine" means a coin- operated mechanical container
or device, used or intended to be used for the retail sale of smoking materials.
Underage Person" means a person under the age of 21.
Prior Code 14- 33; Ord. No. 94- 11, Amended, 04/ 26/94; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and Replaced,
06/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2016- 13, Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
Section 8. 16. 010 Minor Possessing Smoking Materials for Use Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to use, or to have in their
possession, any smoking materials. A violation of this section shall be an infraction and is
subject to a fine in an amount permitted by law, or by the provisions of Chapters 1. 12 or 1. 16 of
this code. This section does not apply in instances where it would be preempted by applicable
state law, including without limitation sales made to active duty military personnel who are at
least 18 years of age and present an identification card issued by the United States Armed
Forces.
Prior Code 14- 32; Ord. No. 90- 38, Amended, 09/ 24/ 90; Ord. No. 94- 11, Amended, 04/ 26/94; Ord. 2014-
14, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2016- 13, Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
8. 16 ( l) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 16. 015 Retail Sale of Smoking Materials by Minors
A. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to directly engage in
the retail sale of smoking materials unless the minor is supervised during the sale transaction by
a person over the age of 21 years.
B. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, operates, or manages a business
to allow a person under the age of 21 years to directly engage in the retail sale of smoking
materials unless the minor is supervised during the sale transaction by a person over the age of
21 years.
Ord. No. 96- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 96; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2016- 13,
Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
Section 8. 16. 030 Prohibition of Sale of Smoking Materials by Vending Machine
No person, firm, or corporation shall sell, offer for sale, or distribute, smoking materials
from a smoking materials vending machine, or any other coin or token operated mechanical
device designed or used for vending purposes, including, but not limited to, machines or devices
that use remote control locking mechanisms.
Ord. No. 94- 11, Amended, 04/ 26/ 94; Ord. No. 96- 21, Amended, 12/ 10/ 96; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and
Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
Section 8. 16. 035 Retail Sale of Smoking Materials
A. It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or tobacco retailer to sell, permit to
be sold, offer for sale or display for sale, any smoking materials by means of self-service
merchandizing, or by means other than vendor- assisted sales.
Self-service merchandising" means open display of smoking materials that the public
has access to without the intervention of an employee.
Vendor-assisted" means only a store employee has access to the product and must
assist the customer by supplying the product, and the customer does not take possession of the
product until it is purchased.
B. Any business which primarily sells smoking materials is exempt from this section
if persons under the age of 21 years are excluded from entering the business premises.
C. Businesses which need to make substantial modifications to the business
premises to comply with this section must comply within 60 days after the ordinance becomes
effective. All other businesses must comply by the 31 st day following adoption.
D. A business which meets all of the following criteria shall be exempt from this
section:
1. Allows members only to purchase products.
2. Requires all members to be 18 years or older.
Ord. No. 96- 15, Enacted, 07/ 23/ 96; Ord. No. 96- 22, Amended, 12/ 10/ 96; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and
Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2016- 13, Amended, 9/ 13/ 16)
Section 8. 16. 038 Sale of Single Cigarettes Prohibited
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to sell, permit to be sold, offer for
sale or display for sale, single cigarettes, whether or not such cigarettes are in the original
packaging. This subsection does not apply to electronic smoking devices.
Ord. No. 96- 21, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 96; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 16 ( 2) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 16. 040 Violation - Penalty
Any violation of this chapter is an infraction and shall be punishable according to the
provisions of Chapters 1. 12 and 1. 16 of this code.
Ord. No. 94- 11, Enacted, 04/ 26/ 94; Ord. 2014- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 16 ( 3) Vista 10/ 14/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.20
County Crop and Plant Regulations Adopted
Sections:
8. 20.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Quarantines
8. 20.020 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Pest Control
8. 20.030 Adoption of County Provisions Relating to Removal of Plants
Section 8. 20.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Quarantines
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of regulating plant and other
quarantines as established by the State Director of Food and Agriculture and the County
Agricultural Commissioner, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of
Regulatory Ordinances, Chapter 1 of Division 3 of Title 6, relating to quarantine regulations.
One copy of the County Code is filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and it is adopted and
incorporated as though fully set out at length in this chapter. From the date on which the
ordinance codified in this section takes effect, the provisions thereof are controlling within the
limits of the city.
Prior Code 8- 1; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63; Ord. No. 90- 16,
Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8. 20.020 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Pest Control
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of controlling pests, that certain
code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances, Chapter 2 of Division 3
of Title 6, relating to pest control. One copy of the County Code is filed in the Office of the City
Clerk, and it is adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length in this chapter. From
the date on which the ordinance codified in this section takes effect, the provisions thereof are
controlling within the limits of the city.
Prior Code 8- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63; Ord. No. 90- 16,
Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8. 20.030 Adoption of County Provisions Relating to Removal of Plants
A. Subject to the provisions of Section 1. 04.040 of this Code, Chapter 3 Division 3,
Title 6 of the San Diego County Code, entitled " Removal of Plants," as amended through
August, 1965, is adopted as the regulations of the City therefore, and such provisions are
referred to, adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth in this chapter.
B. Three copies of such provisions of the County Code are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk.
Prior Code 8- 3; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 2/ 15/ 63)
8. 20 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.24
Food Vending Vehicles
Sections:
8. 24.010 Definitions
8. 24.020 Food Vending Vehicle Permit Required
8. 24.030 Food Vending Vehicle Permit Application  Inspection
8. 24.040 Food Vending Vehicle Permit Issuance and Denial Term
8. 24.050 Operator Permit Required
8. 24.060 Operator Permit Application
8. 24.070 Operator Permit Issuance or Denial Term
8. 24.080 Posting and Display Requirements
8. 24.090 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
8. 24. 100 Appeal of Action on Permit
8. 24. 110 General Operating Requirements and Prohibitions
8. 24. 120 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations within the Public Right-of-Way
8. 24. 130 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations on Public Property
8. 24. 140 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations on Private Property
8. 24. 150 Penalty
8. 24.010 Definitions
Code Enforcement Manager" means the Code Enforcement Manager for the City of
Vista or his or her designee.
Food vending vehicle" includes any vehicle, as that term is defined in the California
Vehicle Code, from which any type of food or beverage is sold or offered for sale directly to any
consumer; provided, however, that " food vending vehicle" shall not include a vehicle that only
delivers food or beverage products ordered by home delivery customers. The term " food
vending vehicle" shall exclude any ice cream truck as defined in Section 5. 52.010 provided that
at least one- half of the inventory available for sale consists of ice cream, popsicles, or similar
frozen products.
Food vending vehicle permit" means a valid and current permit for a food vending
vehicle which is issued pursuant to Section 8. 24.040.
Operate a food vending vehicle" means to: ( 1) drive, occupy, or otherwise use a
food vending vehicle to sell, offer to sell, or display for sale any type of food or beverage; or ( 2)
own a business operating from a food vending vehicle involving the sale, offer to sell or display
for sale of any type of food or beverage.
Operator" means a person who, at any time, is present at a food vending vehicle and
is either: ( 1) the sole worker then operating the vehicle; or ( 2) has primary responsibility for
managing the operation of the food vending vehicle at that time.
Operator permit" means a valid and current permit to operate a food vending vehicle
issued pursuant to Section 8. 24. 070.
Public property" means any real property, or interest therein, owned, leased,
operated, or otherwise controlled by the City other than a street, alley, parkway, or sidewalk.
Prior Code 12- 7; Ord. No. 86- 41, Amended 8/ 26/86; Ord. No. 2004-8, Amended, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014-
17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24 ( l) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
8. 24.020 Food Vending Vehicle Permit Required
A. It is unlawful for any person to operate a food vending vehicle unless a food
vending vehicle permit issued pursuant to this Chapter is in effect for that food vending vehicle.
B. Every permittee, upon receipt of a food vending vehicle permit shall, at all times
of operation, maintain the permit with the vehicle for which the permit was issued.
C. Upon demand of a peace officer or City employee authorized to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter, a person operating a food vending vehicle shall present the food
vending vehicle permit that is in effect for that vehicle.
D. All food vending vehicle permits are the property of the City and each shall
authorize the operation of a single specific food vending vehicle. It is unlawful for any person to
sell or transfer, or attempt to sell or transfer, any food vending vehicle permit.
Prior Code 12- 7; Ord. No. 86- 41, Amended 8/ 26/86; Ord. No. 2004-8, Amended, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014-
17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.030 Food Vending Vehicle Permit Application  Inspection
A. An application for a food vending vehicle permit shall be filed with the Code
Enforcement Manager and shall contain the following:
1. The individual and business name, address, and telephone number of the
permit applicant which shall be the person or entity operating the business from the food
vending vehicle, including all other names used by the applicant.
2. Written evidence that the applicant is an owner, lessee or holder of a
similar interest in the food vending vehicle.
3. The name and address of all legal and registered owner(s) of the food
vending vehicle, and each person with a financial interest in the business that operates the food
vending vehicle.
4. A copy of a valid business license issued pursuant to Chapter 5. 04 of this
Code.
5. The state vehicle license plate number and the vehicle identification
number of the food vending vehicle.
6. Proof of compliance with the automobile liability insurance requirements
in the minimum amounts set by state law.
7. Proof that the vehicle is in compliance with applicable requirements of the
State of California and the County of San Diego regarding the operation of a food vending
vehicle.
8. The address where the food vending vehicle is stored and restocked
when not in use.
9. A description of the goods and merchandise which will be sold or
distributed from the food vending vehicle.
10. A listing of each conviction of a misdemeanor violation or entry of a plea
of nolo contendere, in the preceding twelve months, with respect to the applicant, or any party
operating a food vending vehicle owned by applicant: ( a) for violating this Chapter; or ( b) for
actions occurring while operating a food vending vehicle. The list shall, for each such
conviction, set forth the date of arrest, the offense charged, and the offense of which the person
was convicted. During the period covered by a permit, the Code Enforcement Manager: ( 1)
shall be apprised of the preceding information with respect to any new convictions or pleas of
nolo contendre.
8. 24 ( 2) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
11. Whether a permit in connection with a food vending vehicle or its
operation, sought by the applicant has been denied or revoked by the City or any other
jurisdiction or governmental unit in the United States in the three year period prior to the
application. If so, the circumstances and facts upon which that denial or revocation was based.
12. If the applicant will be the operator of the food vending vehicle, evidence
of a current California driver' s license for operation of the food vending vehicle.
13. Such other information as may be required by the Code Enforcement
Manager to further the purpose of this Chapter.
B. If the applicant intends to be the operator of the vehicle and has provided the
information required by paragraph 12, the Code Enforcement Manager shall process the
application as a request for a combined food vending vehicle and operator permit. The holder
of such a permit, for purposes of this Code, shall be deemed to hold both a food vending vehicle
permit and an operator permit.
C. Every application for a food vending vehicle permit shall be accompanied by a
nonproratable, nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
D. Upon receipt of a complete application and the required application fee, the Code
Enforcement Manager shall physically inspect the food vending vehicle to ensure compliance
with this Code, state law, and the Vehicle Code equipment requirements; provided, however,
that the Code Enforcement Manager, in his or her discretion, may accept proof of compliance
with California or San Diego County inspection requirements for operating a food vending
vehicle in lieu of conducting an inspection.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.040 Food Vending Vehicle Permit  Issuance and Denial Term
A. Except as provided in subsection B, a food vending vehicle permit or a food
vending vehicle and operator permit, as applicable, shall be issued by the Code Enforcement
Manager upon receipt of a complete application and payment of the permit fee, as specified in
Section 8. 24.030 of this Chapter.
B. A food vending vehicle permit or a food vending vehicle and operator permit, as
applicable, may be denied by the Code Enforcement Manager if he or she finds any of the
following grounds:
1. The information submitted pursuant to Section 8. 24.030 of this Chapter is
materially false or incomplete.
2. The applicant or any person with a financial interest in the business that
operates the food vending vehicle, has any unpaid administrative penalties imposed pursuant to
Chapter 1. 13 of this Code.
3. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant, any registered
owner of the food vending vehicle, or any person with a financial interest in the business that
operates the food vending vehicle, has had his or her food vending vehicle permit revoked.
4. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant, any registered
owner of the food vending vehicle, or any person with a financial interest in the business has
violated the requirements of this Chapter or those of State or other laws with respect to a food
vending vehicle or being an operator of a food vending vehicle.
5. The applicant has not paid the applicable business license tax pursuant to
Chapter 5. 04 of this Code.
6. The food vending vehicle does not have the inspection permits required
by the County of San Diego or the Code Enforcement Manager, following his or her physical
inspection of the food vending vehicle, determines that the vehicle fails to satisfy the legal
requirements for the lawful operation of the vehicle in the State or County.
8. 24 ( 3) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
7. The business location and vehicle storage location, if within the city, does
not comply with applicable zoning regulations and other codes.
8. The applicant or a party operating a food vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere: (a) for violating this
Chapter or for actions occurring while operating a food vending vehicle; and ( b) the conviction or
entry of plea occurred within 12 months prior to the submission of the application.
9. The applicant has applied for a food vending vehicle and operator permit,
but does not have a current California driver' s license for operation of the food vending vehicle.
C. All food vending vehicle permits shall expire on June 30 of the calendar year
following the date of issuance unless sooner revoked, except that a permit initially issued
between April 1 and June 29 may operate through the second June 30 following issuance in
accordance with an administrative practice or policy approved by the City Manager.
D. Applications for renewal shall be filed between April 1 and April 30 of each year
prior to expiration of a permit.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.050 Operator Permit Required
A. It is unlawful for any person to be an operator of a food vending vehicle unless
the person holds a valid and effective operator permit or a food vending vehicle and operator
permit issued pursuant to this Chapter.
B. Every permittee, upon receipt of an operator permit, shall maintain the permit in
the food vending vehicle where the person acts as operator.
C. Upon demand of a peace officer or City employee authorized to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter, a person who is an operator of a food vending vehicle shall present
the operator permit that is in effect for the operator.
D. All operator permits are the property of the City and each shall only authorize the
person holding the permit to be an operator of a food vending vehicle. It is unlawful for any
person to sell or transfer, or attempt to sell or transfer, any operator permit.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2010- 10, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed
and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.060 Operator Permit Application
A. An application for an operator permit shall be filed with the Code Enforcement
Manager and shall contain the following:
1. The name, address, and telephone number of the permit applicant,
including all other names used by the applicant.
2. Unless the applicant certifies that he or she will never drive a food
vending vehicle, evidence of a current California driver's license for operation of the food
vending vehicle.
3. A listing of each conviction of a misdemeanor violation or entry of a plea
of nolo contendere, in the preceding 12 months with respect to the applicant, or any party
operating a food vending vehicle owned by applicant: ( a) for violating this Chapter; or ( b) for
actions occurring while operating a food vending vehicle. The list shall, for each such
conviction, set forth the date of arrest, the offense charged, and the offense of which the person
was convicted. During the period covered by a permit, the Code Enforcement Manager: ( 1)
shall be apprised of the preceding information with respect to any new convictions or pleas of
nolo contender.
8. 24 ( 4) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
4. Whether the applicant has ever been denied a permit in connection with a
food vending vehicle or its operation by the City or any other jurisdiction or governmental unit in
the United States in the three year period prior to the application. If so, the circumstances and
facts upon which that denial or revocation was based.
5. Such other information as may be required by the Code Enforcement
Manager to further the purpose of this Chapter.
B. Every application for an operator permit shall be accompanied by a
nonproratable, nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.070 Operator Permit Issuance or Denial Term
A. Except as provided in subsection B of this section, an operator permit shall be
issued by the Code Enforcement Manager upon receipt of a complete application and payment
of the permit fee, as specified in Section 8. 24.060.
B. An operator permit may be denied by the Code Enforcement Manager if he or
she finds any of the following grounds:
1. The information submitted pursuant to Section 8. 24.060 of this Chapter is
materially false or incomplete.
2. The applicant has any unpaid administrative penalties imposed pursuant
to Chapter 1. 13 of this Code.
3. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant has had his or
her food vending vehicle permit or operator permit revoked.
4. The applicant has not paid the applicable business license tax pursuant to
Chapter 5. 04 of this Code.
5. Within 12 months of the date of application, the applicant has violated the
requirements of this Chapter or those of state or other laws with respect to a food vending
vehicle or being an operator of a food vending vehicle.
6. The applicant or a party operating a food vending vehicle owned by
applicant was convicted of a violation or entered a plea of nolo contendere: (a) for violating this
Chapter or for actions occurring while operating a food vending vehicle; and ( b) the conviction or
entry of plea occurred within 12 months prior to the submission of the application.
D. All operator permits shall expire on June 30 of the calendar year following the
date of issuance unless sooner revoked, except that a permit initially issued between April 1 and
June 29 may operate through the second June 30 following issuance in accordance with an
administrative practice or policy approved by the City Manager.
E. Applications for renewal shall be filed between April 1 and April 30 of each year
prior to expiration of a permit.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.080 Posting and Display Requirements
A. No person shall operate a food vending vehicle unless the food vending vehicle
permit decal, as provided by the director, is displayed on the vehicle window in a manner
specified by the Code Enforcement Manager.
B. No person shall operate a food vending vehicle unless the food vending vehicle
number, as provided by the Code Enforcement Manager, is permanently posted on the exterior
of the vehicle and in a location that is clearly visible to patrons. The numbers shall be legible,
not less than three and one- half inches in height and in a color that contrasts with the color of
the background upon which it is placed.
8. 24 ( 5) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
C. No person shall serve as an operator for a food vending vehicle unless at all
times the person has in his or her physical possession either an operator permit or a food
vending vehicle and operator permit which shall be immediately available for display.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24.090 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
A. The Code Enforcement Manager may suspend or revoke any food vending
vehicle permit or operator permit issued hereunder on the basis of any of the following grounds:
1. The Code Enforcement Manager determines that any activity authorized
by the permit is being carried out in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance, or to be injurious
to the public health, safety or welfare; or
2. The operation of the food vending vehicle is in violation of any conditions
imposed upon the permit or in violation of any provision of this Chapter, this Code, the San
Diego County Code or state law.
3. There exist grounds that would have justified denial of the permit
application had those grounds been known, or had they been true, on the date of the
application.
B. Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no permit shall be suspended
or revoked until a hearing is held by the Code Enforcement Manger. Written notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be given at least five days prior to the date set for such hearing
to the person to whom the permit was granted and to any other person who, at least ten days
prior to the hearing, requests such notice. Such notice shall contain a brief statement of the
grounds to be relied upon for revoking or suspending such permit. Notice may be given either
by personal delivery to the persons to be notified, or by depositing the notice in the U. S. mail in
a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the persons to be notified at the address
appearing in the application for a permit.
C. Upon the Code Enforcement Manager's suspension or revocation of any permit
pursuant to this section, written notice of that suspension or revocation shall be provided to the
permittee in the manner described in paragraph B setting forth the grounds for revocation or
suspension. Within ten days of such notice, the permittee shall surrender the subject permit to
the City.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24. 100 Appeal of Action on Permit
A. An applicant or permittee, as applicable, may appeal the Code Enforcement
Manager' s decision to deny an application, to suspend a permit, or to revoke a permit pursuant
to this Chapter in the manner provided below.
B. A notice of appeal, accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount set by resolution
of the City Council, must be filed within ten days after the date of the Code Enforcement
Manager's decision.
C. Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the City Manager or his or her designated
representative shall hear such appeal within 20 calendar days following the date of such appeal
and shall give the appellant not less than five calendar days advanced notice of the date of such
hearing. The decision of the City Manager shall be based upon the same criteria as set forth in
this Chapter which are applicable to the issuance or revocation of such permit. The appellant
shall be notified of the decision of the City Manager by mailed, written notice. The decision of
the City Manager shall be final. No revocation of a permit pursuant to this Chapter shall be
deemed effective during the pendency of a timely filed appeal until the date of mailing of the City
Manager's decision.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24 ( 6) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
8. 24. 110 General Operating Requirements and Prohibitions
A food vending vehicle shall operate in conformity with the following requirements:
A. No person may sell any product from a food vending vehicle unless the vehicle
has been brought to a complete stop and is parked in a lawful manner.
B. No person may sell any product from a food vending vehicle unless the site is
adequately lit to ensure customer safety. Any lighting maintained by the vendor shall be directed
downwards and away from public streets and adjacent properties.
C. No person may operate a food vending vehicle while the vehicle is connected to
an external source of power, water or any other utilities.
D. No vendor may place any free-standing signs, tables, chairs, fences, shade
structures, or other furniture on or near the site of the operation of the food vending vehicle.
E. All food vending vehicles shall be equipped with refuse receptacles large enough
to contain all refuse generated by operation of the vehicle.
F. The operator of a food vending vehicle shall pick up all refuse generated by such
operation within a 50 foot radius of the vehicle before the vehicle is moved. All refuse shall be
disposed of in an approved solid waste facility.
G. Any use of amplified or non- amplified sound making devices, including vehicle
horns, to advertise, draw attention to, or announce the presence of any such vehicle shall
comply with the limitations and provisions set forth in the Municipal Code.
H. No vending from a food vending vehicle shall occur when the prospective
customer is located in that portion of the street or alley which is open to vehicular traffic.
I. No vending from a food vending vehicle shall occur when any part of the vehicle
is stopped within a no- parking zone designated on any street, alley, or public property.
J. No vending from a food vending vehicle shall occur when any part of the food
vending vehicle is open to prospective customers on the side of the vehicle closest to traffic.
K. No vending from a food vending vehicle shall occur when the vehicle is parked or
stopped in violation of any provision of the California Vehicle Code.
L. No restocking of a food vending vehicle shall occur while it is stopped on a street,
alley, or public property.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24. 120 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations within the Public Right-of-Way
Except as may be permitted by a street event permit issued pursuant to Chapter 12. 12,
no person shall operate from a food vending vehicle from the public right-of-way:
A. Between the hours of 6: 00 p.m. and 7: 00 a. m.
B. For a period exceeding 30 minutes in one location, without moving to a new
location at least 400 feet away.
C. Within 300 feet of any other food vending vehicle.
D. Within 100 feet of any street intersection controlled by a traffic light or stop sign.
E. Along a street or highway with a posted speed limit exceeding 35 miles an hour.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24. 130 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations on Public Property
A. Except for operation of a food vending vehicle occurring from the public right- ofway
in accordance with this Chapter, no food vending vehicle shall operate from any property
owned or leased by the City unless the food vending vehicle is operating pursuant to a valid
temporary special events permit or a street event or park event permit issued pursuant to
Chapters 12. 12 or 12. 13.
8. 24 ( 7) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
B. No food vending vehicle may stand or remain on public property during nonoperating
hours. Overnight parking of a food vending vehicle on a public street or alley is
prohibited.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24. 140 Prohibitions and Limits for Operations on Private Property
A. It is unlawful for any person to operate a food vending vehicle on private property
unless the food vending vehicle satisfies the requirements of paragraphs B, C, and either D or
E.
B. A food vending vehicle may not operate on private property where:
1. The property is vacant or where the property serves as a stand- alone
parking facility.
2. The operation of a food vending vehicle is the primary use of the parcel.
3. The food vending vehicle is stopped, standing or parked in any location
on the property that interferes with access, driveways, aisles, or the circulation of vehicles or
pedestrians.
4. The food vending vehicle is stopped, standing or parked on any surface
that is not paved with concrete, asphalt or other similar material.
5. Another food vending vehicle is already operating on the property.
C. To operate on private property the food vending vehicle must have the consent of
the party in control of the property which shall be satisfied as follows:
1. The written consent of the party in control of the property, which may be
the owner or lessee of the property, shall be provided to the Code Enforcement Manager in a
form approved by the Code Enforcement Manager.
2. A copy of the written consent shall be maintained with the corresponding
food vending vehicle at all times the vehicle is being operated on private property.
3. Upon demand of a peace officer or City employee authorized to enforce
this Chapter, a person operating a food vending vehicle shall present a copy of the written
consent.
D. Provided that all requirements of this Code and this section are satisfied, a food
vending vehicle may operate on private property for up to 30 minutes at one time in a four hour
period if the food vending vehicle is located on private property: ( 1) that is not zoned as open
space, agricultural, or residential; or ( 2) which is zoned for open space, agriculture, or
residential and is under active construction. For purposes of this paragraph, a property is
under active construction" if a grading or building permit has been issued by the City of Vista
for that property, but the work thereunder is incomplete and actively underway.
E. A food vending vehicle may operate from private property for a period exceeding
30 minutes if the requirements of this Code and this section are satisfied, along with all of the
following:
1. The food vending vehicle is being operated exclusively or primarily to
serve persons who are actively patronizing a business located on a qualifying premise. For
purpose of this section, a " qualifying premise" means premises for which the Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control has issued a type 02, type 04, or a type 23 license.
2. The qualifying premise and the food vending vehicle are located in the
Vista Business Park Specific Plan or Specific Plan 14.
3. The food vending vehicle is either: ( a) located on the qualifying
premises; or ( b) located within a common area serving the qualifying premises and the vehicle
is within 75 feet of the building housing the qualifying premises ( measured at the nearest points
between the building and the food vending vehicle).
8. 24 ( 8) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
4. A maximum of one food vending vehicle is serving patrons of the
business operating from the qualifying premises.
5. The food vending vehicle shall not conduct food or beverage service
during any time that the qualifying premise is closed for business.
6. Food and beverage service from the food vending vehicle, even if the
qualifying premise is open for business, shall not start earlier than 11: 00 a.m. and shall end by
11: 00 P. M.
7. Set- up of a food vending vehicle shall start no sooner than one hour
before food service commences, and any take-down will be completed within one hour following
the time that food service ends.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24. 150 Penalty
A. Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. There shall be a separate misdemeanor for each day on which a violation
occurs.
B. Additionally, it is unlawful for any person to knowingly make a false statement of
fact or knowingly omit any information that is required in an application submitted pursuant to
this Chapter.
C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may also impose administrative penalties
pursuant to Chapter 1. 13 of this Code and seek injunctive relief and civil penalties in the
superior court for violations of this Chapter. The remedies provided for in this Chapter shall be
cumulative and not exclusive of any other remedies available under any other federal, state, or
local laws.
Ord. No. 2004- 8, Added, 09/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2014- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 06/ 24/ 14)
8. 24 ( 9) Vista 7/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.26
Grading of Mobile Food Facilities Regulations Adopted
Sections:
8. 26.010 Purpose and Intent
8. 26.020 Adoption of County Regulations for Grading of Mobile Food Facilities
8. 26.030 Fees
Section 8. 26.010 Purpose and Intent
Fixed location food facilities throughout San Diego County are currently scored against
food safety criteria by County inspectors, and assigned a letter grade based on that score.
Mobile food facilities are not graded. To better inform the public, the County is extending the
letter grade system currently used for restaurants to mobile food facilities. In the unincorporated
County, this will be done by enacting a change in the County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
sections 61. 101 to 61. 115 of Chapter 1, Division 1, Title 6. These changes will improve public
information; help customers easily identify vendors in good compliance and provide more
information about the overall condition of the mobile food facilities to make safe dinning choices.
Mobile food facilities operate in multiple jurisdictions. Grading is a local program in each
County unincorporated area and City, not a state law program. Therefore, establishing an
effective grading system for mobile food facilities requires cooperation across city boundaries,
allowing the County the authority to enforce posting of letter grades in all local jurisdictions.
This ordinance provides for City cooperation in a coordinated regional program by ( 1)
adopting the County changes to the restaurant grading ordinance by reference; and ( 2) by
requiring that grade cards be posted by mobile food facilities that prepare food and that permit
fees to provide cost recovery are paid by operators of mobile food facilities that prepare food.
Ord. No. 2012- 10, Added, 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 8. 26.020 Adoption of County Regulations for Grading of Mobile Food
Facilities
There is hearby adopted by the City Council of the Chartered City of Vista, San
Diego County, State of California, for the purpose of grading of permanent and mobile food
facilities that prepare food, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of
Regulatory Ordinances, at Title 6, Division 1.
A copy of the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances has been and is
now filed in the Office of the Clerk of the City of Vista, and it is hereby adopted and incorporated
as though fully set out at length herein. From the date on which this ordinance shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2012- 10, Added, 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 8. 26.030 Fees
All persons and businesses required to obtain a health- related permit or related service
from the County of San Diego, Department of Environmental Health ( DEH) pursuant to this
Chapter shall pay the County fee established in the County Code for that permit or service,
including delinquent payment fees.
Ord. No. 2012- 10, Added, 10/ 9/ 12)
8. 26 ( l) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.28
Junk
Sections:
8. 28.010 Definitions
8. 28.020 Accumulations Prohibited - Exceptions
8. 28.030 Accumulations Declared a Public Nuisance
8. 28.040 Storage of Junk Permitted Under Certain Conditions
8. 28.050 Enforcement
Section 8. 28.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, "junk" means any combustible, noncombustible,
putrescible or nonputrescible waste or material, including, but not limited to trash; refuse; paper;
glass; cans; bottles; rags; fabrics; bedding; ashes; trimmings from lawns, shrubbery or trees,
except when such trimmings are used for mulch or like agricultural purposes; household refuse
other than garbage, including lumber, metal, plumbing fixtures, bricks, building stones, plaster,
wire or like material, whether from demolition, alteration or construction of buildings or
structures, or from other sources; tires or inner tubes; auto, aircraft or boat parts; plastic or
metal parts or scraps; damaged or defective boats, machinery, vehicles or engines, whether or
not repairable; and damaged or defective toys, recreational equipment or household appliances
or furnishings, whether or not repairable.
Prior Code 15- 1; Ord. No. 65- 56, Enacted 2/ 1/ 66)
Section 8. 28.020 Accumulations Prohibited - Exceptions
No person shall accumulate junk or permit junk to be accumulated or stored or permit
the storage thereof, on any lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the city, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. The accumulation or storage of junk is permitted only under
certain conditions and only within the residential zones as defined in the zoning ordinance of the
City.
Prior Code 15- 2; Ord. No. 65- 56, Enacted 2/ 1/ 66)
Section 8. 28.030 Accumulations Declared a Public Nuisance
The accumulation of junk contrary to this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance.
Upon the direction of the City Council, the City Attorney shall bring an appropriate action to
abate such public nuisance in a court of competent jurisdiction.
Prior Code 15- 3; Ord. No. 65- 56, Enacted 2/ 1/ 66)
Section 8. 28.040 Storage of Junk Permitted Under Certain Conditions
A. As to any lot or parcel of land improved with residence buildings or occupied by a
bona fide residence, the person so occupying the same may store:
1. Junk as defined in this chapter, on the rear one-third of the lot or parcel of
land on which the residence is situated, for a period not to exceed 30 days; provided that such
junk, as junk, was not brought upon the premises and stored but was or is accumulated through
wear and tear in the household use of the family occupying such premises; and, provided that
such junk is not visible from public streets; and, provided that it is the intent of such occupant,
8. 28 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
within a 30- day period, to take or have taken such junk to a public dump or other place where
disposal may be lawfully made.
2. Materials of a noncombustible and nonputrescible character, provided
that such materials are stored within an enclosed building upon the premises.
B. It is lawful for the occupant of the residence upon any lot or parcel of land at all
times to have and to store upon such premises such motor vehicles as are operable and in use
by such occupants or members of his immediate family; and, in addition, to store and keep no
more than one nonoperable vehicle, provided that such vehicle is either contained:
1. Within an enclosed garage located on the lot or parcel of land on which
the residence is located; or
2. On the rear one- third of the lot or parcel of land on which the residence is
located, provided that such vehicle is screened from public view by six- foot fencing approved by
the City Manager or his designee.
C. This chapter does not prohibit the accumulation of wood, used lumber, lumber
scraps or materials fabricated out of wood for use as firewood or fuel; provided, that any such
accumulation is neatly stacked and shall be maintained on the rear one- third of the lot or parcel
of land involved, that the components of such accumulation shall be sawed or otherwise
reduced in size so that no piece thereof exceeds five feet in length, and that such accumulation
is accumulated and kept upon the premises for use by the actual occupant as fuel and is so
used.
Prior Code 15- 4; Ord. No. 65- 56, Enacted 2/ 1/ 66)
Section 8. 28.050 Enforcement
A. The City Manager or his designee shall investigate all complaints of violation of
this chapter and, in addition thereto, it is his duty, either in person or through his designee, to
examine and investigate the various parts of the city to ascertain whether this chapter in any of
its parts is being violated or observed. If, in the opinion of the City Manager, after investigating
complaints or making examinations and observations on his own account, any provision of this
chapter is being violated, he shall notify, in writing, the persons who are violating this chapter at
the address where the violation occurs, with a warning that if such person does not desist from
the violation and correct the conditions complained of within two days from the date such notice
is served, such person may be prosecuted in a court of competent jurisdiction.
B. In serving the notice of violation it is sufficient to deliver a written copy thereof to
the person to be prosecuted; or such written notice may be sent to such person by United
States mail, in which case such written notice shall be placed in an envelope addressed to the
person at the address where the violation occurs, with postage prepaid, and deposited in the
United States post office in the city. The delivery in the post office constitutes service.
Prior Code 15- 5; Ord. No. 65- 56, Enacted 2/ 1/ 66)
8. 28 ( 2) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.30
Sale or Disposal of Found Property
Sections:
8. 30.010 Purpose and Intent
8. 30.020 Definitions
8. 30.030 Care and Storage
8. 30.040 Retention
8. 30.050 Disposition of Unclaimed Property
8. 30.060 City Personnel Prohibited
Section 8. 30.010 Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide procedures for the care, retention and
disposition of unclaimed property in the possession of the City.
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 8. 30.020 Definitions
A. " Unclaimed property" including personal property unattended to, lost or
abandoned by its owner and taken into possession by City personnel or employees under
contract to the City, in the course of the performance of their duties.
B. " Unclaimed property" includes personal property turned in to the City by a
person who has found the personal property.
C. " Unclaimed property" does not include animals. Animals shall be turned over
to the Animal Control authorities of the City.
D. " Unclaimed property" does not include evidence or contraband taken into
possession by the law enforcement officials of the City.
E. " Unclaimed property" does not include property worth less than $ 10, if the
owner is unknown, which may be disposed of forthwith. ( CC 2080. 7, 2080. 7)
F. " Unclaimed property" does not include vehicles abandoned on public property.
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 8. 30.030 Care and Storage
Unclaimed property taken into possession by the City shall be delivered to the City
Manager or his/ her designee which shall administer its care retention, and disposition.
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 8. 30.040 Retention
A. Except as otherwise provided, unclaimed property shall be retained for a period
of 90 days and then disposed of by sale at a public auction to the highest bidder after proper
notice in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (CC 2080. 6)
B. The following unclaimed property is not subject to the 90- day retention
period and may be sold at a public auction in accordance with the provision of this chapter:
when the unclaimed property is in danger of perishing or of losing the greater part of its value;
when the lawful storage charges for the unclaimed property amounts to two- thirds of the value
of the unclaimed property; or when the owner of the unclaimed property has been identified and
8. 30 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
thereafter refuses to take possession of the property or to pay the storage charges thereon.
CC 2080. 5)
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 8. 30.050 Disposition of Unclaimed Property
A. Restoration to owner.
1. If the owner of the unclaimed property is known to, or becomes known to
the City, the City shall inform the owner that the unclaimed property has been taken into
possession. ( CC 2080)
2. If the owner of the property appears within 90 days after receipt of the
property by City and proves ownership, the City shall restore the property to him/ her upon the
reimbursement by the owner of the costs incurred by the City, as long as the property has not
been previously disposed of. (CC 2080.2)
B. Restoration to Finder.
If the reported value of the property is $ 50 or more and no owner proves
ownership within 90 days, City shall publish notice of property in a newspaper of general
circulation. If after seven days of the first publication, no owner proves ownership, the person
who found the unclaimed property shall pay the costs of publication and title shall vest in finder.
If finder is the City, City shall sell property at public auction as set forth in this chapter, and, after
successful bidder pays to City the publication costs, title shall vest in him. If value is less than
50 and 90 days has lapsed, title shall vest in finder, without payment of publication costs to
City. If finder is the City, then City shall sell at public auction.
C. Use by City.
After the required retention period, if the City Manager or his/ her designee
determines that the unclaimed property is needed for public use by the City, the unclaimed
property shall be retained for use by the City.
D. Quick sale.
When unclaimed property is not subject to the 90 day retention period as set
forth in Section B under Retention above, the City Manager or his/ her designee may sell such
property by public auction in the same manner as the sale of personal property under execution.
CC 2080. 5)
E. Auction.
After the required 90 day retention period, the City Manager or his/ her designee
shall cause to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation within San Diego County
a notice of auction at least five days prior to the time fixed for the auction. Unclaimed property
shall be sold to the highest bidder and the proceeds shall be deposited into the City's general
fund. The unclaimed property may be transferred to the County of San Diego to conduct the
auction in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code. ( CC 2080.6( a))
F. Destruction.
Unclaimed property which remains unsold after being offered at public auction or
otherwise disposed of in accordance with this chapter, may be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of by the City.
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 8. 30.060 City Personnel Prohibited
No City officer, employee, or appointed person including officers or employees working
under contract to the City, shall purchase unclaimed property sold in accordance with this
chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 08, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
8. 30 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 32
Noise Control
Sections:
8. 32.010 Prima Facie Noise Violations
8. 32.020 Enforcement of Prima Facie Violations
8. 32.030 Violation of Section 8. 32.010 - Penalty
8. 32.040 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Noise Control
8. 32.050 Violation of Section 8. 32.040 - Penalty
8. 32.060 Additional Remedy
Section 8. 32.010 Prima Facie Noise Violations
Any of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of a violation of this section:
A. The operation of any such sound production or reproduction device, radio
receiving set, musical instrument, drum, phonograph, television set, loudspeaker and sound
amplifier or similar machine or device between the hours of 10: 00 p. m. and 7: 00 a. m. in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in
which it is located.
B. The operation of any sound amplifier, at any time of day or night, which is part of,
or connected to, any radio, stereo, receiver, compact disc player, cassette tape player or other
similar device, when operated in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
and when operated in such a manner as to cause a person to be aware of vibration
accompanying the sound at a distance of 50 feet from the source.
Prior Code 19- 7. 7; Ord. No. 89- 41, Amended 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 32.020 Enforcement of Prima Facie Violations
Any peace officer, as defined in Chapter 4. 5 ( commencing with Section 830) of the
Penal Code, who encounters prima facie evidence of a violation of Section 8. 32.010 is
empowered to enforce these provisions.
Prior Code 19- 7. 8; Ord. No. 89- 41, Amended 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 32.030 Violation of Section 8. 32.010 - Penalty
A. Any person violating Section 8. 32.010 is deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall have a mandatory court appearance, and upon conviction thereof is punishable according
to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue constitutes a separate offense and is punishable as such.
B. Notwithstanding the penalty provisions of subsection (A) of this section, following
the conviction of a defendant for any prima facie violations of Section 8. 32. 010, the prosecutor
or city attorney may bring a motion requesting the court to order the confiscation and the
destruction of any or all of the components amplifying or transmitting the sound.
Prior Code 19- 7. 9; Ord. No. 89- 41, Amended 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 32.040 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Noise Control
A. There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of controlling noise, that
certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances, Chapter 4 of
Division 6 of Title 3, relating to control of noise, excepting therefrom the table set out in Section
36.404 and replacing it with the following:
8. 32 ( l) Vista 4/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Table 8. 32.040
APPLICABLE EXTERIOR PROPERTY LINE NOISE LIMITS
Applicable Limit One-hour
Zone Time Average Sound Level ( Decibels)
A- 1, E- 1, O & OSR 7: 00 a. m.-- 10: 00 p. m. 50
R- 113, MHP 10: 00 p. m.-- 7:00 a. m. 45
R- M 7: 00 a. m.-- 10: 00 p. m. 55
10: 00 p. m.-- 7:00 a. m. 50
C- 1, C- 2, 0-3, C-T, OP, M- U
and Downtown Specific Plan 7: 00 a. m.-- 10: 00 p. m. 60
10: 00 p. m.-- 7:00 a. m. 55
M- 1, I- P, all areas of the
Vista Business Park Specific
Plan and Specific Plan 14 Any time 70
B. The one- hour average sound level limit specified in paragraph A shall be reduced
by five decibels for a noise which, in the judgment of the noise control officer, constitutes a
whine, screech, hum, or a repetitive noise such as hammering or riveting.
C. One copy of the County Code is filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and it is
adopted and incorporated as though fully set out at length in this chapter. From the date on
which the ordinance codified in this section takes effect, the provisions thereof are controlling
within the limits of the city.
D. The provisions of Section 8. 32. 010 and paragraph A of this Section are not
applicable to entertainment conducted under a valid permit issued pursuant to Chapter 5. 24
when the entertainment satisfies all conditions for sound generation and sound attenuation
imposed by Section 5. 24. 110 and the applicable permit, including operating hours of the
entertainment. Failure to satisfy the noise generation or attention conditions imposed by an
entertainment permit or this Chapter constitutes a violation of this Chapter.
E. Except as limited by paragraph D, all provisions in this Chapter apply to any
noise or sound generated by activities on premises holding an entertainment permit, including
noise generated by activities not qualifying as an entertainment, noise generated by
entertainment occurring outside of the hours authorized in the entertainment permit, and noise
generated by forms of entertainment not authorized under an entertainment permit.
Prior Code 19- 40; Ord. No. 83- 13, Amended 4/ 11/ 83; Ord. No. 83- 29, Amended 6/ 16/ 83; Ord. No. 89-41,
Amended 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90; Ord. No. 2014- 7, Amended and Added, 3/ 25/ 14)
Section 8. 32.050 Violation of Section 8. 32.040- Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of Section 8. 32. 040 is deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of
Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
constitutes a separate offense and is punishable as such.
Prior Code 19- 40; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8. 32.060 Additional Remedy
As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device, instrument,
vehicle, machinery or other item in violation of any provision of this chapter for which operation
or maintenance causes discomfort or annoyance to persons of normal sensitivity or which
endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of residents in the area, is deemed and is
8. 32 ( 2) Vista 4/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
declared to be a public nuisance and is subject to summary abatement, in order to preserve or
protect the public health, safety or welfare, abatement by a restraining order or injunction issued
by a court of competent jurisdiction, or by abatement and assessment in accordance with the
Uniform Public Nuisance Abatement Procedure contained in Chapter 2, Division 6, Title 1
commencing with Section 16. 201) of the County Code.
Prior Code 19- 40; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
8. 32 ( 3) Vista 4/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.36
Property Maintenance and Nuisance Abatement
Sections:
8. 36.010 Purpose and Intent
8. 36.020 Scope
8. 36.030 Prohibited Conduct
8. 36.040 Specific Conditions Constituting Public Nuisance, and Unlawful Condition
8. 36.050 Exemptions
8. 36.060 Enforcement
8. 36.070 Declaration of Nuisance
8. 36.080 Form of Notice of Hearing
8. 36.090 Posting and Service of Notice
8. 36. 100 Form of Proper Service of Notice
8. 36. 110 Hearing by City Council
8. 36. 120 Decision of City Council
8. 36. 130 Limitation of Filing Judicial Action
8. 36. 140 Service of Resolution to Abate
8. 36. 150 Record of Cost for Abatement
8. 36. 160 Report- Hearing and Proceedings
8. 36. 170 Assessment of Costs Against Property - Lien
8. 36. 180 Alternative Remedies
8. 36. 190 Nuisance Violation  Penalty
8. 36.200 Alternative Procedure
Section 8. 36.010 Purpose and Intent
The establishment of minimum property maintenance standards is designed to promote
the property maintenance of property and buildings within the city such that properties do not
become detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare and to the aesthetics of the
community and cause a detrimental effect upon properties in the surrounding area, including,
but not limited to, the use, value and enjoyment thereof.
Prior Code 15A- 1; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.020 Scope
The provisions of this chapter apply to all structures and properties within the city.
Prior Code 15A-2; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.030 Prohibited Conduct
Except as provided in Section 8. 36.050, it is unlawful for any person owning, leasing,
occupying, or having charge or possession of any premises in this city to maintain it in such a
manner that a public nuisance exists upon such property as determined by the City pursuant to
this chapter. A public nuisance exists whenever any of the following findings are made:
A. The maintenance or condition of the property is such that it endangers the life,
limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or occupants thereof, or constitutes a public
nuisance as defined by Civil Code Section 3479 et seq.
8. 36 (l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Maintenance of property in such condition as to become defective, unsightly or in
such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same causes appreciable diminution of the
property values of surrounding properties or is materially detrimental to proximal properties and
improvements.
C. Maintenance of premises is so out of harmony with the maintenance standards of
adjacent properties as to cause substantial diminution of the enjoyment, use, or property values
of such adjacent properties.
D. As set forth in Section 8. 36. 040.
Prior Code 15A-4; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.040 Specific Conditions Constituting Public Nuisance, and Unlawful
Condition
The existence of any of the following conditions upon any property shall be considered a
public nuisance, a violation and unlawful condition:
A. Substandard Building or Structures. Any building or portion thereof which is
determined to be a substandard building in accordance with Chapter 10 of the Uniform Housing
Code. In addition, this includes:
1. Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed or permitted to remain
unreasonably in a state of partial construction.
2. Buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged by fire,
decay or otherwise to such an extent that the same cannot be repaired so as to conform to the
requirements of the building code in effect in this city.
3. The failure to close, by such means as shall be acceptable to the building
official, all doorways, windows and other openings into vacant structures.
4. Any portion of a building that is unpainted or untreated so as to expose
raw building material to the elements or which is visible from any public right- of-way, street, or
alley.
5. Any portion of a building which has broken windows, damaged woodwork
or wall coverings including, but not limited to unpainted surfaces, chipped or peeling paint,
damaged brickwork, stonework, stucco, or wood, such that the affected area is in excess of the
following:
a. Ten percent of total exposed material used for trim, fascia, rafters,
or rain gutters.
b. Five percent of wall surfaces as measured along any single plane
of the building.
B. Substandard Property. Property or portions thereof having one or more of the
following conditions:
1. Land, the topography, geology or configuration of which, whether in
natural state or as a result of grading operations, excavation or fill, causes erosion, subsidence
or surface water drainage problems of such magnitude as to be injurious or potentially injurious
to the public health, safety and welfare or to adjacent properties.
2. Overgrown, diseased, decayed or dead vegetation, including lawns,
weeds, plants, shrubs, hedges and trees, and including any such vegetation within parkway
areas of the property subject to utility and City easements. There is a conclusive presumption
that vegetation is overgrown under these provisions if the vegetation has not been properly cut
and trimmed within 30 days after notification that such vegetation is overgrown.
3. Junk stored or accumulated contrary to the provisions of Chapter 8. 28 of
this code.
8. 36 (2) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
4. Garbage stored in such a manner as to constitute a fire, health or safety
hazard, or to promote the propagation, harborage or attraction of vectors or vermin or the
creation of litter.
5. Garbage cans stored in front or side yards and visible from public or
private streets.
6. Packing boxes, lumber, litter, dirt and other debris accumulated in
vestibules, doorways or the adjoining sidewalks or outside commercial or industrial buildings
and visible from public or private streets.
7. Subject to the exceptions set forth in Subsection ( e), ( f), ( h) and ( i) below,
the owner or resident of property zoned for residential use may park or store a motor vehicle or
trailer, as defined in California Vehicle Code, or any recreational vehicle registered in his or her
name on said property only in the following areas:
a. Within a fully enclosed and permitted structure; or
b. When screened from public view by a solid fence, wall or
landscaping not less than six feet in height; or
C. On the portion of the lot or parcel that is behind a line which
extends from the portion of the main structure, excluding the garage, nearest the front property
line to the side lot lines, which is parallel to the front property line, and which does not abut a
public or private street; or
d. In a parking area approved by the City as part of a development
approval process; or
e. The parking of motor vehicles, trailers and recreational vehicles is
permitted upon a paved driveway ( not more than 24-feet in width) connecting a carport or
garage with a public or private street, provided no portion of the motor vehicle, trailer, or
recreational vehicle shall extend into the paved or unpaved sidewalk area. No more than one
trailer or recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a paved driveway less than 50 feet in
length. A maximum of two recreational vehicles may be parked or stored on a paved driveway
in excess of 50 feet. For the purposes of this section, " paved" driveway shall mean a pavement
section of not less than four inches of Portland Cement concrete on native soil, or two inches of
Asphaltic Concrete over six inches of decomposed granite, or as determined by Section
16. 57.090D of the Vista Development Code. For the purposes of this section, the " unpaved"
sidewalk area shall be that area parallel to the paved road with a width of five feet measured
from the edge of the paved road extending outward from the road.
f. No more than two trailers or recreational vehicles or any
combination of such vehicles, shall be stored or parked on any property less than one acre in
size zoned for single family residential uses. One additional trailer or recreation vehicle may be
parked or stored on property zoned for single family residential use for each additional one- half
acre to a maximum of four. Trailers or recreational vehicles stored within any fully enclosed
structure, such as a garage, shall not count against the total number of recreational vehicles
permitted under this section.
g. No property owner or resident of property zoned for residential
uses shall permit the storage or parking of a trailer or recreational vehicle belonging to a bona
fide guest or guests in excess of 30 days cumulative in any 12 consecutive month period,
provided the total number of trailers or recreational vehicles parked or stored on the property
shall not exceed the limitation set forth in subsections (e) or ( f).
h. Detached camper shells, truck campers, vehicle parts or vehicle
related equipment must be stored in accordance with Subsections ( a) or ( b) above.
i. No motor vehicle or trailer in excess of 24 feet in length, excluding
recreational vehicles, may be parked or stored on property zoned for residential purposes.
8. 36 (3) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
j. All trailers and recreational vehicles stored or parked on property
zoned for residential use shall have affixed a valid license with current registration tag.
k. For the purpose of this section, a recreational vehicle shall have
the same definition as found in Section 10. 34.010 of this code.
8. Graffiti or other words, letters or drawings which remain on the exterior of
any building or fence and visible from a public street.
9. Any clothesline which is located in the front yard.
10. Attractive nuisances dangerous to children, including, but not limited to,
abandoned and broken equipment, iceboxes, refrigerators and unprotected and/ or hazardous
pools, ponds and excavations.
11. Any fence or wall which is damaged, improperly maintained, dilapidated,
or which is not structurally intact.
12. It is unlawful for any person to abandon, park, store, or leave or permit
the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any licensed or unlicensed vehicle or pat
thereof which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition upon any
private property or such property not including highways within the City unless such vehicle or
part thereof is completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly
visible from the street or other public or private property, or unless such vehicle is stored or
parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer or junkyard. " Vehicle" as used in this chapter shall be
defined as set forth in Section 670 of the California Vehicle Code.
13. Front yard and side yard abutting a street in which the maintenance
results in an area substantially dissimilar to the condition of landscape on surrounding
properties. This requirement does not apply to that portion of a lot which is under cultivation of
a crop or orchard, or which is landscaped with shrubs or ornamental plant material.
14. The covering of the required front yard landscape area with unnatural or
synthetic materials whose general use is not intended for use as outdoor landscape material,
such as, but not limited to, carpet, plastic sheeting, or paper products.
15. Any use of, condition on, or improvement on property in violation of the
Vista Municipal Code, the Vista Development Code, or any Permit Condition. A " permit
condition" is any condition imposed by the City of Vista or any of its constituent bodies or
employees in connection with any entitlement, permit license, variance, specific plan, or
environmental review document issued or approved under the Vista Municipal Code, Vista
Development Code, Federal law, State law, or any regulations promulgated thereunder.
Prior Code 15A-5; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 97- 3, Amended, 01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 23,
Amended, 11/ 27/ 2001; Ord. No. 2004- 12, Amended, 12/ 14/ 2004)
Section 8. 36.050 Exemptions
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
A. Any material currently in use in the course of lawful construction, demolition, or
landscaping on the site.
Prior Code 15A-6; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.060 Enforcement
A. General Enforcement Authority. The City Manager, or any of his designated
enforcement officers ( hereinafter referred to as " officer") are hereby authorized to enforce all
provisions of this chapter.
B. Right of Entry. The officer is authorized to enter upon any property or premises
to ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter are being obeyed, and to make any
8. 36 (4) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
examination and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of his enforcement duties.
These may include the taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All
inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If entry
onto property is refused, the officer may seek to obtain an inspection warrant or other remedy
as provided by law.
C. Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning,
leasing, occupying, or having charge of any property or premises in this jurisdiction to violate
any provisions or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. The City shall
proceed in its discretion against any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of Chapters 1. 12, 1. 13, and 1. 16.
D. Abatement by Repair, Rehabilitation, Demolition, or Removal. All or any part of
premises found, as provided in this chapter, to constitute a public nuisance may be abated by
rehabilitation, demolition, or repair pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. The
procedures set forth in this chapter are not exclusive and shall not in any manner limit or restrict
the City from enforcing other City ordinances or abating public nuisances in any other manner
provided by law.
Prior Code 15A-7; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 97- 3, Amended, 01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2004- 12,
Amended, 12/ 14/ 04)
Section 8. 36.070 Declaration of Nuisance
Whenever the City Manager or his designee determines that any premises within the city
may be maintained contrary to one or more of the provisions of Sections 8. 36.030 and 8. 36.040,
then he shall cause either a citation to be issued to the property owner or notice to be given in
the manner provided in this chapter for the holding of a public hearing to ascertain whether the
same does in fact constitute such public nuisance, the abatement of which is appropriate under
the police power of the City.
Prior Code 15A-8; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.080 Form of Notice of Hearing
Notice of the time and place of hearing before the City Council is titled, " NOTICE TO
ABATE NUISANCE," in letters not less than three-fourths of an inch in height and shall be
substantially in the following form:
NOTICE OF HEARING TO DETERMINE EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
AND TO ABATE IN WHOLE OR PART.
Notice is hereby given that on the day of 20 , at
the hour of of said day, the City Council of Vista will hold a public hearing in the
Council Chambers of the Vista City Council, located at 200 Civic Center Drive, Vista, California,
to ascertain whether certain premises situated in the City of Vista, State of California, known
and designated as in said city and more particularly described
as constitute a public nuisance subject to abatement by the
rehabilitation of such premises or by the repair or demolition of buildings or structures situated
thereon. If said premises, in whole or part, are found to constitute a public nuisance as defined
by Sections 8. 36.030 and 8. 36.040 of the Vista City Code, and if the same are not promptly
abated by the owner, such nuisances may be abated by municipal authorities and the
rehabilitation, repair or demolition will be assessed upon such premises and such cost will
constitute a lien upon such land until paid. Said alleged violations consist of the following:
8. 36 (5) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Said methods of abatement available are: All persons having any objection
to, or interest in said matters are hereby notified to attend a meeting of the City Council of the
City of Vista to be held on the day of 20_, at the hour of
when their testimony and evidence will be heard and given due consideration.
DATED:
Deputy City Manager ( or title of such other City Official designated by the City Manager).
Prior Code 15A-9; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36.090 Posting and Service of Notice
A. The City Manager, or his designee, shall cause to be served upon the owner,
and any mortgagee and/ or beneficiary under any recorded deed of trust, of each of the affected
premises a copy of such notice as is set out in Section 8. 36.080 of this chapter, and shall cause
a copy thereof to be conspicuously posted on each of the affected premises in accordance with
the provisions of Section 8. 36. 080.
B. Such notice shall be posted and served, as aforesaid, at least 15 days before the
time fixed for such hearing. Proof of posting and service of such notices shall be made by
declaration, under penalty of perjury, filed with the City Clerk.
Prior Code 15A- 10; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2001- 13, Amended 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 8. 36. 100 Form of Proper Service of Notice
A. Service of such notice shall be by personal service upon the owner, and
mortgagee and/ or beneficiary, of the affected premises or by depositing a copy of such notice in
the U. S. mail, enclosed in a sealed envelope and with postage thereon fully prepaid. Said mail
shall be registered or certified, return receipt requested, and addressed to the person owning
the land on which the building or structure is located as such person' s name and address
appear on the last equalized assessment roll or as known to the City Clerk. If any owner's
address is unknown, this shall be stated in the notice and shall be sent to the owner in care of
the San Diego County Tax Assessor. Upon giving such notice, an affidavit shall be filed with the
City Clerk certifying the time and manner in which the notice was given, along with any
registered or certified mail receipt cards which may have been returned to the City
acknowledging receipt of said mail.
B. Prior to the hearing before the City Council, a second notice shall be issued in
the same manner as described above. The service is complete at the time of such deposit.
C. " Owner," as used in this section, means any person in possession and also any
person having or claiming to have any legal or equitable interest in said premises, including, but
not limited to, mortgagee and/ or beneficiary, as disclosed by a current title search from any
accredited title company. The failure of any person to receive such notice does not affect the
validity of the proceedings under this chapter.
Prior Code 15A- 11; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
8. 36 (6) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 36. 110 Hearing by City Council
At the time stated in the notices, the City Council shall hear and consider all relevant
evidence, objections or protests, and shall receive testimony from owners, witnesses, City
personnel and interested persons relative to such alleged public nuisance and to proposed
rehabilitation, repair or demolition of such premises. Such hearing may be continued from time
to time.
Prior Code 15A- 12; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 120 Decision of City Council
Upon or after the conclusion of such hearing, the City Council shall, based upon such
hearing, determine whether the premises, or any part thereof, as maintained, constitutes a
public nuisance as defined in this chapter. If the City Council finds that such public nuisance
does exist and that there is sufficient cause to rehabilitate, demolish or repair the same, the City
Council shall adopt a resolution setting forth its findings and ordering the owner or other person
having charge or control of such premises to abate such nuisance by having such premises,
buildings or structures rehabilitated, repaired or demolished within the period specified in the
resolution, which shall not be less than 30 days after the adoption of such resolution, in the
manner and by the means specifically set forth in the resolution. The decision and order of the
City Council shall be final.
Prior Code 15A- 13; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2001- 23, Amended 11/ 27/ 01)
Section 8. 36. 130 Limitation of Filing Judicial Action
Any owner or other interested person having any objections or feeling aggrieved at any
proceeding taken by the City Council in ordering the abatement of any public nuisance under
the provisions of this chapter, must bring an action to contest such decision in a court of
competent jurisdiction, within 30 days after the date of posting on said premises a notice of the
passage of the resolution declaring the nuisance to exist. Otherwise, all objections to such
decision are deemed waived.
Prior Code 15A- 14; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 140 Service of Resolution to Abate
A. Within five days of the adoption of the resolution declaring a public nuisance, the
City shall post a copy of such resolution conspicuously on the premises, buildings or structures
so declared to be a nuisance and mail another copy to the parties indicated in Section 8. 36. 100,
in the same manner as indicated in Section 8. 36. 100. The resolution shall contain a detailed list
of needed corrections and abatement methods. Any property owner has the right to have any
such premises rehabilitated or to have such buildings or structures demolished or repaired in
accordance with said resolution and at his own expense, provided the same is done prior to the
expiration of the abatement period set forth in the resolution. Upon such abatement in full by
the owner, then proceedings under this chapter shall terminate.
B. If such nuisance is not completely abated by the owner as directed within the
designated abatement period, then the City Manager, or such other City official as may be
designated by him, is authorized and directed to cause the same to be abated by the City forces
or private contract, and the City Manager ( or his designated agents) is expressly authorized to
enter upon said premises for such purpose. Upon request of the designated official, other City
departments shall cooperate fully and shall render reasonable assistance in abating any such
nuisance.
Prior Code 15A- 15; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 2001- 23, Amended, 11/ 27/ 2001)
8. 36 (7) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 36. 150 Record of Cost for Abatement
A. The City Manager, or his designee, shall keep an account of the cost ( including
incidental expenses) of abating such nuisance on each separate lot or parcel of land where the
work is and shall render an itemized report in writing to the City Council, showing the cost of
abatement and the rehabilitating, demolishing or repairing of said premises, buildings or
structures, including any salvage value relating thereto, provided that, before said report is
submitted to the City Council, a copy of the same shall be posted for at least five days upon
such premises, together with a notice of the time when said report shall be heard by the City
Council for confirmation.
B. The City Council shall set the matter for hearing to determine the correctness or
reasonableness, or both, of such costs.
C. A copy of said report and notice shall be served upon the owners of said property
in accordance with the provisions of Section 8. 36. 100, at least five days prior to the date of the
City Council hearing.
D. Proof of said posting and service shall be made by declaration, under penalty of
perjury, filed with the City Clerk.
E. The term " incidental expenses" includes, but is not limited to, the actual
expenses and costs of the City in preparation of notices, specifications and contracts, and in
inspecting the work, and costs of printing and mailing required under the provisions of this
chapter.
Prior Code 15A- 16; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 160 Report - Hearing and Proceedings
At the time and place fixed for receiving and considering said report, the City Council
shall hear and pass upon the report of such costs of abatement, together with any objections or
protests. Thereupon the City Council may make such revision, correction or modification in the
report as it may deem just, after which, by resolution, the report, as submitted or as revised,
corrected or modified, shall be confirmed. The decision of the City Council on all protests and
objections which may be made is final and conclusive.
Prior Code 15A- 17; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 170 Assessment of Costs Against Property - Lien
The total cost for abating a nuisance, as so confirmed by the City Council, shall
constitute a special assessment against the respective lot or parcel of land to which it relates,
and upon recordation in the Office of the County Recorder of a notice of lien, as so made and
confirmed, shall constitute a lien on said property for the amount of such assessment.
A. After such confirmation and recordation, a certified copy of such decision shall be
sent to the tax division of the County Auditor- Controller' s office, whereupon it is the duty of said
Auditor-Controller to add the amounts of the respective assessments to the next regular tax bills
levied against said respective lots and parcels of land for municipal purposes, and thereafter
said amounts shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal
taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure under
foreclosure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal taxes; or
B. After such recordation such lien may be foreclosed by judicial or other sale in the
manner and means provided by law.
C. Such notice of lien for recordation shall be in a form substantially as follows:
8. 36 (8) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
NOTICE OF LIEN - CLAIM OF CITY OF VISTA
Pursuant to the authority vested by the provisions of Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista Municipal
Code, the City Manager of the City of Vista ( or his designated agents) did on or about the
day of 20 , cause the premises hereinafter
described to be rehabilitated, or the building or structure on the property hereinafter described to
be repaired or demolished, in order to abate a public nuisance on said real property; and the
City Council of the City of Vista did on the day of
19 , assess the cost of such rehabilitation, repair or demolition upon said real property
hereinafter described; and the same has not been paid nor any part thereof; and that the City of
Vista does hereby claim a lien on such rehabilitation, repair or demolition in the amount of said
assessment, to wit: the sum of $ and the same shall be a lien upon said real property
until the same has been paid in full and discharged of record. The real property hereinbefore
mentioned, and upon which a lien is claimed, is that certain parcel of land lying and being in the
City of Vista, County of San Diego, State of California, and more particularly described as
follows:
DESCRIPTION)
DATED:
City Manager of the City of Vista
Prior Code 15A- 18; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 180 Alternative Remedies
Nothing in this chapter prevents the City Council from ordering the City Attorney to
commence a civil or criminal proceeding to abate a public nuisance under applicable civil or
penal code provisions as an alternative to the proceedings set forth in this chapter.
Prior Code 15A- 19; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90)
Section 8. 36. 190 Nuisance Violation - Penalty
A. The owner or other person having charge or control of any such buildings or
premises who violates any order of abatement made pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
B. Any occupant or lessee in possession of any such building or structure who fails
to vacate said building or structure in accordance with an order given as provided in this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
C. Any person who removes any notice or order posted as required in this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
D. No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any representative of the City
Council or with any representative of a City department or with any person who owns or holds
any estate or interest in a building which has been ordered to be vacated, repaired, rehabilitated
or demolished and removed, or with any person to whom any such building has been lawfully
sold pursuant to the provisions of this code, whenever any such representative of the City
Council, representative of the City, purchaser or person having any interest or estate in such
building is engaged in vacating, repairing, rehabilitating or demolishing and removing any such
building pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or in performing any necessary act
preliminary to or incidental to such work as authorized or directed pursuant to this chapter.
E. The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable
pursuant to Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his designee,
8. 36 (9) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
to issue citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not
preclude nor be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
F. The City may also initiate nuisance abatement procedures as set forth in this
chapter.
Prior Code 15A-20; Ord. No. 89- 50, Added 1/ 8/ 90; Ord. No. 97- 3, Amended, 01/ 28/ 97)
Section 8. 36.200 Alternative Procedure
A. The alternative procedures designated in this section apply to: ( 1) speed bumps
which exist or are constructed on property in alleged violation of Section 16. 57.080; and ( 2) any
class of nuisance or alleged nuisance which the City Council, by resolution, directs to be
processed using the procedures of this section.
B. Nuisances governed by this section shall be processed at a hearing conducted
by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee rather than the City Council. All notices
involving a nuisance governed by this section shall be modified to replace any reference to the
City Council with a reference to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. Decisions
rendered by the City Manager or designee at the conclusion of the hearing shall be in the form
of an order ( rather than a resolution) and, in all other respects, shall be rendered, served,
implemented, and judicially reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The cost
of any abatement for a nuisance governed by this section and any cost recovery proceedings
shall be noticed, calculated, and recovered as proved in this chapter, including through tax
assessments or other liens, except that all hearings shall occur before the City Manager or the
City Manager's designee.
Ord. No. 2001- 23, Added 11/ 27/ 01)
8. 36 ( 10) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.38
Graffiti
Sections:
8. 38.010 Purpose and Intent
8. 38.020 Definitions
8. 38.030 Prohibitions
8. 38.040 Penalties
8. 38.050 Detection Provisions
8. 38.060 Access to Graffiti Implements by Minors
8. 38.070 Removal of Graffiti
8. 38.080 Prevention Requirements
8. 38.090 Parental Involvement Provision
8. 38. 100 Severability
Section 8. 38.010 Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose and intent of the City Council of the City of Vista, through the enactment
of this Chapter, to provide additional enforcement tools for protecting public and private property
from acts of vandalism and defacement; especially, but not limited to, graffiti on privately and
publicly owned walls, buildings, and signs. The City Council finds and declares that graffiti,
defacement and other acts of vandalism are inimical and destructive to the rights of owners and
tenants and to the values of private property, and are injurious to the community health and
welfare. Further, it is the intent of the City Council that these regulations shall be strictly
enforced by the City' s law enforcement officers, and that persons who violate these regulations
will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. The City further intends that parents and
guardians of minors who violate these regulations shall be held responsible for their minors'
unlawful acts to their fullest extent allowed by law.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.020 Definitions
A. " Graffiti," as used in this section, includes any unauthorized inscription, word,
figure, or design that is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or painted on any structural
component of any building, structure, or other facility, regardless of the nature of the material of
that structural component, to the extent that same was not authorized in advance by the owner
thereof, or despite advanced authorization, or is otherwise deemed by the Council to be a public
nuisance.
B. " Aerosol Paint Container" means any aerosol container, regardless of the
material from which it is made, which is adapted or made for the purpose of spraying paint or
other substance capable of defacing property.
C. " Felt Tip Marker" means any indelible marker or similar implement with a tip,
which at its broadest width, is greater than one- eighth inch, containing an ink that is not watersoluble.
D. " Graffiti Stick" means a device containing a solid form of paint, chalk, wax,
epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being applied to a surface by pressure, and upon
application, leaving a mark at least one- eighth of an inch in width, visible from a distance of 20
feet, and not water- soluble.
8. 38 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
E. " Graffiti Implement" means an aerosol paint container, a felt tip marker, a
graffiti stick, or a glass defacing liquid or tool.
F. " Glass Defacing Liquid or Tool" means any device or product designed to
scratch, etch or deface glass, including, without limitation, any caustic cream, gel, liquid, or
solution capable, by means of chemical action, of defacing, damaging, or destroying hard
surfaces.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 20,
Amended, 08/ 26/ 03)
Section 8. 38.030 Prohibitions
A. Application of graffiti. It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti on any
public or privately owned structures located on public or privately owned real property within the
City.
B. Possession by minors. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to have in his or her possession any graffiti implements while upon public property; or
upon private property without the consent of the owner of such private property whose consent
has been given in advance and such consent as to the person' s presence shall have been given
while such person was in the possession of a graffiti implement.
1. School exception for felt tip markers. The foregoing provision shall not
apply while the person is attending, or traveling to or from a school at which the person is
enrolled, if the person is participating in a class at said school which has, as a written
requirement of said class, the requirement to use felt tip markers.
C. Possession in designated public places. No person shall have in his or her
possession any graffiti implement while in any public park, playground, swimming pool,
recreational facility ( other than a highway, street, alley or way) except as may be authorized by
the City.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.040 Penalties
A. Vista diversion program; community service with minimum hours and parental
involvement. In lieu of, or as a part of, the prosecution of a petition to declare a minor to be a
ward of the court under Welfare and Institutions Code Section 602 ( including but not limited to,
offenses which, in the opinion of the Police Chief or Sheriffs Department, constitute a violation
of this chapter), or in lieu of the prosecution of a violation of this chapter as a criminal act of an
adult, the Police Chief, or Sheriffs Department, with the approval of (or according to rules and
procedures approved by) the City Manager, shall be authorized to offer to such minor or adult
the option to perform community service, but which community service shall, if offered, contain
the following minimum requirements:
1. The minor or adult shall perform at least 30 hours of community service.
2. At least one custodial parent of a minor, or if none, a guardian, shall be in
attendance during at least 50% of the period of time assigned to said minor for community
service.
3. The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the Chief of Police or Sheriffs
Department.
4. Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the minor or adult to a type of
community service that is reasonably expected to have the most rehabilitative effect on the
minor or adult. To the extent that the offense giving rise to the offer of Community Service
Diversion Program constitutes a violation of this chapter, reasonable effort shall be made by the
8. 38 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chief of Police or Sheriffs Department to assign the minor or adult to a community service
which constitutes, in significant part, the removal of graffiti.
B. Mandatory juvenile delinquent community service.
Any minor determined to be a ward of the court under Welfare and Institutions
Code Section 602 as a result of committing an offense in the City shall, at the City' s option, be
required to perform community service, including graffiti removal service of not less than 30
hours or more than 80 hours.
C. Penalties for violation.
Each and every violation of this chapter shall be punishable either as an
infraction or a misdemeanor, at the discretion of the City Manager, pursuant to Chapter 1. 12 of
this code.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.050 Detection Provisions
A. Authority to post reward; claims.
1. Pursuant to Section 53069. 5 of the Government Code, the City Council,
by adoption of a resolution, may post a reward not to exceed $ 1, 000 per incident for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of any person for violation of Penal Code Section 594 by the
application of graffiti. In the event there are multiple contributors of such information, the reward
amount may be divided by the City in the manner it shall deem appropriate. For the purposes of
this section, diversion of the offending violator(s) to the Vista Diversion Program shall constitute
a conviction. A plea bargain to a lesser offense shall constitute a conviction. The Director of
Public Works shall distribute public information to inform the community that the award has
been paid and the circumstances of such award.
2. Claims for rewards under this section shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Each claim shall:
a. Specifically identify the date, location, and type of property
damaged or destroyed.
b. Identify by name the person who was convicted, or admitted to the
damage or destruction of the public and/ or private property.
C. Identify the court and the date upon which either the conviction or
the pleas of guilty was entered.
3. All claims for reward shall be reviewed by the City Manager and shall be
subject to approval. Prior to authorizing the payment of a reward, the City Manager, or his or
her designee, shall investigate and verify the accuracy of the claim.
4. The person committing the offense, or if an unemancipated minor, then
the custodial parent or guardian of said minor, shall be liable for reimbursement to the City of
any reward paid pursuant to this section. If the custodial parent or guardian fails to pay the
reward amount within 90 days from the date an invoice is submitted, and said parent lives within
the City of Vista, the City shall take appropriate action( s) to secure payment by placing a tax lien
on any taxable property owned by the custodial parent(s). Should the custodial parent(s) not
have ownership of taxable property within the City, the City shall make every effort to secure
reimbursement of the reward amount through small claims court. The City shall attempt to
recover the reward amount from custodial parent(s) of unemancipated minors living outside the
City of Vista jurisdiction, who fail to make payment to the City within 90 days.
B. Wrongful display for sale prohibited. No person, firm or entity engaged in a
commercial enterprise (" seller") shall display for sale, trade or exchange any graffiti implement
except in such place and manner as to permit continual supervision by an employee or the store
owner. Graffiti implements shall be contained in a completely enclosed cabinet or other storage
device which shall be permanently affixed to a building structure, and shall at all times, except
8. 38 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
during access by authorized representatives, remain securely locked.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/94; Ord. No. 97- 21,
Amended, 12/ 16/ 97; Ord. No. 2008- 11, Amended, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 8. 38.060 Access to Graffiti Implements by Minors
A. Furnishing to minor prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a
parent or legal guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan, or otherwise furnish, or cause or permit to
be exchanged, given, loaned, or otherwise furnished, any felt tip marker or graffiti stick to any
person under the age of 18 years without the consent of the parent or other lawfully designated
custodian of the person, which custodial consent shall be required to be given in writing in
advance.
B. Wrongful display for sale prohibited. No person, firm or entity engaged in a
commercial enterprise (" seller") shall display for sale, trade or exchange any graffiti implement
except in such place and manner as to permit continual supervision by an employee or the store
owner. Graffiti implements shall be contained in a completely enclosed cabinet or other storage
device which shall be permanently affixed to a building or building structure, and which shall, at
all times except during access by authorized representatives, remain securely locked.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.070 Removal of Graffiti
A. Right of City to require removal by property owner. It is unlawful for any person
who is the owner of property, or who has primary responsibility for control over property, or who
has primary responsibility for the repair or maintenance of property (" responsible party"), to
permit property that has been defaced with graffiti to remain so defaced for a period of seven
calendar days after having been given notice of the violation of this section, unless:
1. Said person is able to establish a lack of financial ability to remove the
defacing graffiti. In such cases, the Director of Public Works shall obtain property owner's
written agreement and consent to release the City from liability upon such determination, and
the City shall then remove the graffiti at City expense; or
2. It can be demonstrated that the responsible party has an active program
for the removal of such graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part of that
program. In such cases, it shall be unlawful to permit the property that has been defaced with
graffiti to remain defaced for the period of time to be agreed upon by the Director of Public
Works, or his designee, as being just and reasonable, but not more than 15 calendar days after
notice has been given.
B. Declaration of nuisance.
1. Graffiti as a nuisance. The existence of graffiti within the city limits of the
City of Vista shall be deemed to be a public nuisance. Any responsible party who fails to
remove or abate such public nuisance when ordered to do so upon proper authority is guilty of
an infraction offense under the provision of this code and may be issued a citation in
accordance with Chapter 1. 12.
2. Graffiti attracting surface as a nuisance. The existence of any surface of
a structure on a parcel of land which has been defaced with graffiti after removal more than five
times in a six month period, shall be deemed a public nuisance, which may be abated by minor
modifications thereto, or to the immediate area surrounding such surface, according to the
following provisions and procedures. Said surface or surfaces may be retrofitted to the
maximum extent possible, at the expense of the property owner, or at the cost of the City, at the
City' s option, with such features or material as may be necessary to reduce the attractiveness of
the surface for graffiti, or as necessary to permit more convenient or efficient removal of graffiti,
8. 38 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
upon the determination of the City. For the purposes of this section, the City Council intends
that the property owner and the Director of Public Works shall cooperate in establishing a
mutually agreeable method of abatement of this nuisance.
C. Right of City to remove graffiti.
1. Use of public funds. Whenever the City becomes aware, or is notified
and determines that graffiti is found on public or privately owned property within the city, the City
shall be authorized to use public funds for the removal of same, or for the painting or repairing
of same, but shall not authorize or undertake to provide for the painting or repair of any more
extensive area than where the graffiti is located, unless the Director of Public Works or his
designee, finds and declares in writing that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or
repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or
unless the responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the more
extensive area.
2. Consent to enter; abatement upon failure to obtain consent.
a. Securing owner's consent. Prior to entering upon private property
or property owned by a public entity other than the City for the purpose of removal of graffiti, the
City shall attempt to secure the consent of the property owner, and a release of the City from
liability for damage or injury to private or public property.
b. Failure to obtain owner's consent. If a responsible party fails to
remove the offending graffiti within the time herein specified or if the responsible party has
refused to give consent to the City for entry on terms acceptable to the City consistent with the
provisions of this section, the City may commence Abatement and Cost Recovery Proceedings
for the removal of the graffiti according to the following procedure:
C. Abatement of nuisance and cost of abatement.
1) Notice and conduct of abatement hearing. The City
Manager, or his or her designee (" Hearing Officer"), shall give not less than 48 hours notice of a
hearing to be held by the Hearing Officer for the purpose of showing cause why the public
nuisance should not be abated by the City. The notice shall be served upon the responsible
party, and if the responsible party is not the owner of record, then also upon the owner of record
of the property on which the public nuisance is located in the same manner as provided for
service of a summons in accordance with Article 3 ( commencing with Section 415. 10) of
Chapter 4, Title 5, Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the owner of record of the subject
property on which the public nuisance is located cannot be found after diligent search, the
notice may be served by posting a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place upon the property
for a period of at least ten days and by publishing said notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within San Diego County in the manner provided by Section 6062 of the Government
Code. Following proper notice, the hearing shall be held by the Hearing Officer at the time,
date, and place designated and at such hearing the responsible party and the owner of record
of the property may each be heard and provided with the opportunity to show cause why the
nuisance should not be abated. Following the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall determine
whether abatement of the nuisance shall be commenced. The decision of the Hearing Officer is
final and is not subject to appeal to the City Council.
2) Abatement of Nuisance. If the Hearing Officer determines
that abatement of the nuisance shall be commenced, a written notice (" Eradication Order") shall
be issued to the responsible party; and the owner of record if known, providing that if the public
nuisance is not removed within five days, the City shall enter upon the property and cause such
nuisance to be removed in the manner determined most appropriate by the Hearing Officer.
Upon removal of the public nuisance, the City shall provide an accounting of the costs of
abatement along with a demand for payment to the responsible party, and to the owner of
record if known.
8. 38 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
3) Payment of costs; hearing on protest. The responsible
party and the owner of record shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of the costs of
abatement, and such payment is due and payable immediately upon the issuance of an
accounting and demand for payment by the City. If payment is not made within 60 days from
the date the accounting and demand for payment, the payment shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to a penalty assessment of $ 100 plus interest on the unpaid amount plus
penalty, which interest shall accrue at the rate of one percent per month until paid. Either the
responsible party or the owner of record may protest the amount of the costs of abatement by
filing a written letter of protest of the amount within the 60- day period from the date issued. The
letter of protest shall set forth the basis for the protest. Upon receiving a letter of protest, the
Hearing Office shall set the matter for a hearing by the City Council. At such hearing, the City
Council shall determine the protest.
4) Lien on property upon determination of protest or
nonpayment. Upon determination of a protest of the cost of abatement by the City Council, or in
the event there is no protest and the cost of abatement has not been paid within 60 days from
the date of issuing an accounting and demand for payment, the amount unpaid including any
penalty and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien and an assessment on the property pursuant
to Section 38773, et seq., of the Government Code. The Hearing Officer shall record a notice of
lien and assessment on the official records of the County Recorder. Any such liens or
assessments not paid by June 30 of each year shall upon adoption of a resolution by the City
Council, be collected along with, and in the same manner as, the general property taxes.
D. Conditions to ease removal of graffiti.
1. Common utility colors and paint-type. Any gas, electric, water, sewer,
cable, telephone or other utility operating in the City of Vista shall paint their above- surface
metal fixtures with a uniform paint type and color that is approved by the Director of Public
Works.
2. Conditions on encroachment permits. All encroachment permits issued
by the City shall be subject to the condition that the permittee agrees to the following: ( 1) the
permittee shall apply an anti- graffiti material to the encroaching object of a type and nature that
is acceptable to the Director of Public Works; ( 2) the permittee shall remove any graffiti within
seven days; ( 3) the permittee shall give the Director of Public Works permission to remove
graffiti or to paint the encroaching object, releasing the City from liability; and ( 4) the permittee
shall provide the City with sufficient matching paint and/ or anti- graffiti material on demand for
use in the painting of the encroaching object containing graffiti.
3. Conditions on tentative maps. Any tentative or parcel maps, special use
permits, variances, or other land use entitlements, reviewed by the City may be subject to any
or all of the following conditions, or similar or related conditions, if approved by the reviewing
body at the public hearing required by law for approval of the tentative map, conditional use
permit, variance or other similar land use entitlement;
a. Use of anti- graffiti material. Developers shall apply an anti- graffiti
material of a type and nature that is acceptable to the Director of Public Works to any publiclyviewable
surfaces on the improvements to be constructed on the site deemed by the Director of
Public Works to be likely to attract graffiti (" Graffiti Attracting Surfaces").
b. Right of access to remove graffiti. Prior to resale of any parcels
on any final map or parcel map, the developer shall grant the right of entry over and access to
such parcels by authorized City employees or agents, to the City for the purpose of removing or
painting over" graffiti from graffiti attracting surfaces previously designated by the Director of
Public Works, and the right to remove such graffiti, upon 48 hours posting of notice.
C. Supply to City of graffiti- removal material. For a period of two
years after the resale of their final lot, developers shall provide to the City on demand sufficient
8. 38 ( 6) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
matching paint and/ or anti- graffiti material for use in the painting over or removal of designated
graffiti attracting surfaces.
d. Owner to remove graffiti immediately. Either as part of conditions,
covenants and restrictions, or as separate covenants recorded against individual lots, prior to
resale, developers shall covenant in a form satisfactory to the City, which covenant shall run
with the land and be for the benefit of the City, that owners of the lots shall immediately remove
any graffiti placed thereon.
Ord. No. 92- 7 Enacted, 5/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.080 Prevention Requirements
A. Design of new graffiti attracting surfaces. Any applicant for a site plan approval,
special use permit, unclassified use permit, development agreement, or other form of
development or building permit shall design any structures visible from any public or quasipublic
place in a manner to provide for the prevention of graffiti, including, but not limited to the
following: ( a) use of a protective coating to provide for the effective and expeditious removal of
graffiti; ( b) use of additional lighting; ( c) use of non- solid fencing; ( d) use of landscaping
designed to cover large expansive walls such as ivy or similar clinging vegetation; and ( e) use of
architectural design to break up long continuous walls or solid areas.
B. Retro-fitting of existing graffiti attracting surfaces; non- residential structures. Any
eradication order issued during an abatement hearing held pursuant to Section 8. 38. 070 may
include the following orders:
1. At owner's cost. Any surface of a structure on a parcel of land placed in
any land use other than residential which has been defaced with graffiti after removal more than
five times in six months, or the immediate area surrounding said surface, shall be required to be
retrofitted, at the cost of the property owner of said lot, with such feature or qualities as may be
established by the City as necessary to reduce the attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as
necessary to permit more convenient or efficient removal thereof.
2. At City's cost. The owner of property on which is located a surface of a
structure other than residential which has been defaced with graffiti after removal more than five
times in six months, or the immediate area surrounding said surface, shall permit the City to
enter upon and make such modifications thereto, at City' s cost, as may be established by the
City as necessary to reduce the attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as necessary to
permit more convenient or efficient removal thereof.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38.090 Parental Involvement Provision
Parental civil liability. A parent or legal guardian who consents to, permits, or otherwise
knowingly allows a minor under custody and control to possess a graffiti implement in violation
of this chapter shall be liable for any and all costs incurred by any person, including the City, for
the removal of graffiti caused by such graffiti implement, including any fees and costs incurred
by such person in connection with the civil prosecution of any claim for damages.
Ord. No. 92- 7, Enacted, 5/ 26/ 92; Ord. No. 94- 2, Repealed & Replaced, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 8. 38. 100 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or other portion of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
8. 38 ( 7) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
The City Council declares that it would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, clauses, phrases or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Ord. No. 94- 2, Enacted, 01/ 25/ 94)
8. 38 ( 8) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.40
Insect, Pest, and Vermin Control
Sections:
8.40.010 Purpose - Compliance Required
8.40.020 Removal of Refuse, Excrement and Manure
8.40.030 Refuse to be Piled Pending Removal
8.40.040 Fly-Tight Containers Required for Dead Animals
8.40.050 Inspection of Premises by Health Officer
8.40.060 Legal Effect of Provisions
8.40.070 Prevention of Breeding Places for Vermin
8.40.080 Breeding Place of Mosquitoes Declared Public Nuisance
8.40.090 Breeding Place of Flies Declared Public Nuisance
8.40. 100 Treatment of Soil to Prevent Fly Breeding
8.40. 110 Conflicting Provisions
8.40. 120 Violation - Penalty
Section 8.40.010 Purpose - Compliance Required
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to keep or maintain any livestock,
animals, poultry, or fowl within the city in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The purpose
of this chapter is the protection of the lives and health of the residents of the city by the
elimination of breeding places for flies and other insects, pests and vermin and the spread of
disease and filth by such agents.
Prior Code 14- 4; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.020 Removal of Refuse, Excrement, and Manure
Refuse, excrement, and manure from animals, poultry, fowl, or any livestock is not
permitted to accumulate on any premises in the city for periods in excess of seven days and
must be removed from such premises at not less than seven- day intervals unless spread upon
and buried in the earth in a manner approved by the health officer. This provision does not
apply to commercial supplies of fertilizer in dealers' stock, provided such supplies are packaged
in fly-tight containers, nor to poultry pens or houses where the " deep litter" process is used
within such poultry house or pen.
Prior Code 14- 5; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.030 Refuse to be Piled Pending Removal
Pending its removal from the premises, such refuse, excrement, or manure shall be piled
in a well- drained area on a base at least four inches above the surrounding levels to the end
that storm or surface waters will flow away from rather than into the pile.
Prior Code 14- 6; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.040 Fly-Tight Containers Required for Dead Animals
Dead animals, fowl or poultry and offal, pending removal from the premises, must be
kept in fly- tight containers.
Prior Code 14- 7; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
8. 40 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8.40.050 Inspection of Premises by Health Officer
All premises, upon which any animals, poultry, fowl, or other livestock are kept shall be
subject to inspection at all times by the health officer or his agents.
Prior Code 14- 8; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.060 Legal Effect of Provisions
The provisions of this chapter are in addition to all other laws or ordinances governing or
regulating the keeping of animals, poultry, fowl, or other livestock in the city and not a limitation
thereof.
Prior Code 14- 9; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.070 Prevention of Breeding Places for Vermin
Other adequate means for the prevention of breeding places for flies and other insects,
pests and vermin may be substituted for the provisions of Section 8. 40. 020 when such
substitution is approved in writing by the health officer; provided, however, no such substitution
is permitted where the health officer determines that its use would be detrimental to the public
health or safety.
Prior Code 14- 10; Ord. No. 69- 11, Added 3/ 3/ 69)
Section 8.40.080 Breeding Place of Mosquitoes Declared Public Nuisance
Any breeding place of mosquitoes in the city is a public nuisance.
Prior Code 14- 12; Ord. No. 70- 26, Added 6/ 15/ 70)
Section 8.40.090 Breeding Place of Flies Declared Public Nuisance
Any breeding place of flies in the city is a public nuisance.
A place of fly breeding" means any place where larvae or pupae are permitted to
exist in organic material so as to permit the reproduction of flies.
Prior Code 14- 13; Ord. No. 70- 26, Added 6/ 15/ 70)
Section 8.40. 100 Treatment of Soil to Prevent Fly Breeding
A. In addition to the requirements of Section 8. 40. 020 for the removal of refuse,
excrement and manure from under poultry and fowl cages within the city in all cases where
there is not a smooth cement floor extending at least two feet beyond the outermost edge of
poultry houses that would reasonably facilitate manure removal and the prevention of fly
breeding in the soil under the poultry cages, the soil under said poultry cages shall be treated
with a larvicide immediately after the removal of the refuse, excrement and manure from the
poultry cages. Said larvicide treatment shall be sufficient to prevent the breeding of flies in the
soil beneath the cages.
B. When necessary to prevent or control fly breeding on poultry ranches, the health
officer may require the application of insecticides to other portions of poultry ranches in addition
to the areas specified in Subsection A of this section.
Prior Code 14- 15; Ord. No. 70- 26, Added 6/ 15/ 70)
8. 40 ( 2) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8.40. 110 Conflicting Provisions
Provisions of this chapter relating to regulations for the keeping of animals and poultry
are in addition to any existing remedies and regulations authorized by law and are not to be
construed as conflicting with or in derogation of any other provision of this code or of general
law.
Prior Code 14- 16; Ord. No. 70- 26, Added 6/ 15/ 70)
Section 8.40. 120 Violation- Penalty
A. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or any order of the health officer or his
agents, made under its authority constitutes a misdemeanor and each day such violation
continues after notice of the violation or order is given by the health officer or his agents
constitutes a separate offense. Persons convicted of repeated violations are subject to
abatement as a public nuisance and three or more convictions or violations within one 12- month
period is prima facie evidence of a public nuisance subject to abatement resulting in the removal
of all animals, poultry, fowl, and other livestock from the premises.
B. Any person who creates, allows, suffers, or maintains a public nuisance as
defined by Sections 8. 40. 080 and 8. 40. 090 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Prior Code 14- 11, 14- 14; Ord. No. 69- 11, Enacted 3/ 3/ 69; Ord. No. 70- 26, Amended 6/ 15/ 70)
8. 40 ( 3) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.44
Security Alarms
Sections:
8.44.010 Definitions and Interpretation of Language
8.44.020 Exemptions
8.44.030 Registration of Alarm Agents
8.44.040 Alarm Permits
8.44.050 Direct- Dial Telephone Devices
8.44.060 Appeals
8.44.070 False Alarm  Prevention Payment
8.44.080 Inspection of Alarm System
8.44.090 Automatic Shutoff Requirement
8.44. 100 Delay Device Requirement
8.44. 110 Power Supply
8.44. 120 Testing Alarm
8.44. 130 Prohibitions
8.44. 140 Fees
8.44. 150 Limitation on Liability
8.44. 160 Violation - Penalty
8.44.010 Definitions and Interpretation of Language
A. Grammatical Interpretation. For the purpose of this chapter, whenever the
singular or masculine is used, it includes the plural, feminine or body corporate as necessary.
B. Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases
are construed as applying within the city as further set forth in this section, unless it is apparent
from the context that a different meaning is intended:
Alarm Agent" means any person in possession of a state- approved alarm
company agent identification card containing the agent' s photograph and physical description
who is employed by maintaining, moving, repairing, replacing, servicing, responding to or
causing others to respond to an alarm system in or on any building, structure or facility. This
definition does not apply to local safety officers as defined in Government Code Section
20019.4.
Alarm Business" means any state-approved alarm company business carried
on by any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity of leasing, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing any alarm system or causing to be leased,
maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed, any alarm system in or on
any building, structure or facility.
Alarm System" means any mechanical or electrical device which is designed
or used for either the detection of fire, medical alert or intrusion into a building, structure or
facility or both, which detection causes a local audible alarm or transmission of a signal or
message, or which is used to evoke Sheriff or Fire Department response. Alarm systems
include, but are not limited to, direct- dial telephone devices. Devices which are not designed or
used to evoke Sheriff or Fire response and devices which are designed so as not to be audible,
visible or perceptible outside of the protected building, structure or facility are not included within
this definition. Also not included in this definition are auxiliary devices installed by a telephone
company to protect its system from damage or disruption by use of an alarm system, alarm
systems affixed to vehicles and independent smoke detector systems.
8. 44 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Alarm User" means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind which owns, leases, rents, uses or makes available for use by its
agents, employees, representatives, or family, any alarm system.
Appellant" means a person who presents an appeal pursuant to Section
8. 44. 060.
Audible Alarm" means the sound generated by a device designed for the
detection of fire in or intrusion into a building, structure or facility.
Day" means a calendar day.
False Alarm" means the activation of alarm system responded to by any public
agency through mechanical failure or malfunction, or accidental tripping, misoperation or misuse
by the lessee or owner of the alarm system or his employee or agent. Mechanical failure or
malfunction caused by negligent maintenance of the system is also included in this definition.
Upon failure of the Sheriff or Fire Department to find any evidence of intrusion, fire or other need
or cause for activating an alarm system, a conclusive presumption of false alarm will be made.
Person" means a person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, individual,
organization or company.
Property Owner" means the property owner of the property which has installed
an alarm system.
Smoke Detector" means a device which senses visible or invisible particles of
combustion and is designed to emit upon activation a sound sufficient only to provide warning to
the occupants of the building, structure or facility in which such device is situated.
Prior Code 19- 45, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.020 Exemptions
Public schools, as well as all City, county, state and federal facilities are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 19- 46, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.030 Registration of Alarm Agents
No person shall be employed or operate as an alarm agent without having first obtained
a state-approved alarm company agent identification card. Every agent so approved shall carry
on his person a state card which has affixed to it a photograph of the agent, such photograph
having been taken within 30 days of the issuance of the state card. The card shall also contain
such statistical information, in regard to the agent, as would currently be required upon a motor
vehicle driver' s license issued by the state.
Prior Code 19- 47, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.040 Alarm Permits
A. After the first false alarm, the commander of the Vista Sheriff's Station and/ or the
Fire Chief, depending on the nature of the alarm shall notify the alarm user in writing that they
need to obtain a permit. No person shall install, maintain, lease, service, repair, alter, replace,
move, or use any security or emergency alarm system in a premise which has experienced a
false alarm without first obtaining a City alarm permit.
B. An application and a fee approved by the Sheriff Commander and the Fire Chief
is required for such permit. Such permit fees shall be established by resolution of the City
8. 44 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Council. Permits remain valid until revoked or suspended, or until there is a change in the user.
The alarm permit application shall include the alarm location and plans and specifications
outlining that location as required by the Fire Chief, type of alarm system ( silent or audible
activation), type of response requested ( fire, robbery, burglary or medical emergency), name of
business ( if applicable), name, home address, phone number of alarm user, subscriber and
property owner, telephone number at alarm location and additional names, addresses and
phone numbers of responsible persons for emergency notification.
C. A separate alarm permit is required for each building or facility which contains an
alarm system that could evoke an emergency response. A permit is not transferable to a new
owner upon sale or transfer of an alarm location which has a permit.
Prior Code 19- 48, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.050 Direct- Dial Telephone Devices
No person shall lease, maintain, service, repair, alter, replace, move, install or use any
alarm system which directly dials any telephone number of the City Fire Department or Sheriff's
Department.
Prior Code 19- 49, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.060 Appeals
A. If the alarm user disputes any action of the Sheriff Commander or the Fire Chief,
such person may appeal to the City Manager or his designee by filing with the City Manager ( or
his designee) a statement addressed to the City Manager setting forth the facts and
circumstances regarding the action of the Sheriff Commander or the Fire Chief. The City
Manager shall review the appeal and notify the appellant in writing of the results of the review.
B. The City Manager or designated representative, within ten days from the date on
which such appeal has been filed with the City Manager ( or his designee), shall consider all
relevant evidence and shall determine the merits of the appeal. The City Manager or designated
representative may affirm, overrule or modify the decision of the Sheriff Commander or the Fire
Chief. The determination of the City Manager shall be final.
C. The right to appeal to the City Manager or designated representative from the
determination of the Sheriff Commander or Fire Chief of a false alarm, terminates 15 days
following the deposit of a certified letter of notification of a false alarm into the United States mail
addressed to the alarm user at his mailing address as specified in Section 8. 44.040 or personal
service of such letter, advising the appellant of the penalties.
Prior Code 19- 50, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.070 False Alarm  Prevention Payment
Any alarm user who has an alarm system for the protection of real or personal property
or person, or has installed on the property owner's property an alarm system which has caused
any signal, message or alarm to be transmitted to the Sheriff or Fire Department, either by direct
communication from an alarm agent or an alarm business, or by a person responding to an
audible alarm, and which is proven to be a false alarm, shall pay a false alarm prevention
payment to the City as follows:
A. The first two false alarms in any consecutive 365- day period, the 365-day period
beginning on the date of the first false alarm, shall be considered accidental and no penalty fees
8. 44 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
charged. The alarm user shall be notified in writing by the Sheriff Commander or the Fire Chief
or their designee after the occurrence of the second false alarm, notifying him/ her that any
further false alarms may result in penalty assessments.
B. The alarm user of the alarm system shall be assessed penalty fees for any false
alarms above the initial two false alarms in any consecutive 365- day period, as defined in
subsection A of this section. Such fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council and
shall be paid to the City Treasurer or his designee for deposit in the general fund.
Prior Code 19- 51, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.080 Inspection of Alarm System
Fire alarm systems shall be listed by the State Fire Marshal. The City reserves the right
to inspect all fire and security alarm systems installed within the city. All fire alarm systems
installed after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter must have their fire alarm
plan approved by the Fire Department. Systems installed prior to adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter may be required by the Fire Chief to submit plans and specification to
verify conformance with state and local fire codes.
Prior Code 19- 52, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44.090 Automatic Shutoff Requirement
All alarm systems, excluding fire alarms, shall include a device which will limit the
generation of the audible sound of the system to no longer than 15 minutes after activation, and
the Sheriff Commander or the Fire Chief or their representative has the right to take such steps
as may be reasonable and necessary to disconnect or otherwise render inoperable any
activated alarm beyond the 15- minute period. The Sheriff Commander or the Fire Chief or their
representative shall not be held responsible for damages that occur from rendering inoperable
any activated alarm.
Prior Code 19- 53, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 100 Delay Device Requirement
All burglary detection alarm systems, excluding such alarm systems that are activated
with a " key" device or which generate an audible alarm, shall include a device which will provide
a 30- second delay before the original alarm transmission and immediately upon being activated
shall emit a signal in such a manner as to be perceptible to a person lawfully entering, leaving or
occupying the premises. Such a device is intended to provide an opportunity for the person
having lawful control of the alarm system to terminate its operation after activation but prior to
the transmission of a false alarm.
Prior Code 19- 54, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 110 Power Supply
An alarm shall be supplied with an uninterruptible power supply in such a manner that
the failure, interruption or reactivation of the normal utility electric service will not activate the
alarm system. The backup power supply must be capable of at least four hours of continuous
operation.
8. 44 (4) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 19- 55, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 120 Testing Alarm
A. The alarm user of an alarm system shall notify his central receiving station or
answering service prior to any service, test, repair, maintenance, adjustment, alteration or
installation of his alarm system which might activate a false alarm and result in a Sheriff/Fire
Department response. Any alarm system activated where such prior notice has been given does
not constitute a false alarm.
B. After any false alarm caused by any malfunction of an alarm system, the alarm
user has ten days to cause the alarm system to be repaired so as to eliminate such malfunction
before reactivating the alarm system.
Prior Code 19- 56, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 130 Prohibitions
A. It is unlawful to install or modify an alarm system which upon activation emits a
sound similar to sirens used on emergency vehicles or for civil defense purposes.
B. It is unlawful to transmit an alarm indicating that an emergency exists without
being specific as to the type of emergency, such as robbery, burglary or fire.
Prior Code 19- 57, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 140 Fees
Fees prescribed in this chapter are in addition to any other lawful fees imposed by the
City for doing or conducting business with the City.
Prior Code 19- 58, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 150 Limitation on Liability
The City is under no obligation or duty to any property owner or lessee of an alarm
system or any other person by reason of any provision of this chapter or by reason of the
exercise of any privilege pursuant to this chapter, nor does this chapter impose any liability,
obligation or duty upon the City in regard to, but not limited to, defects in a security or fire alarm
system, any delay in transmission of an alarm message to any emergency unit, or damage
caused by nonresponse or in responding to any alarm by a City officer, employee or agent.
Prior Code 19- 59, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8.44. 160 Violation - Penalty
A. Any person who fails to make proper payments as required under Section
8. 44.070, or violates any section of this chapter, is guilty of an infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each
such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which
any violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such
person.
8. 44 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
B. In addition to the enforcement provision set forth in Subsection A, any alarm user
who fails to make proper payments as required under Subsection 8.44.070, or violates any
section of this chapter may be subject to the administrative citation process, as described in
Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
C. Any fines or fees owed to the City under any of the provisions of this chapter are
considered a debt to the City. To enforce that debt, the City may file a civil action or pursue any
other legal remedy to collect such money.
Prior Code 19- 60, Ord. 90- 14, Amended, 4/ 23/ 90; Ord. No. 2004- 7, Amended and Re- adopted in its
entirety, 8/ 24/ 04)
8. 44 ( 6) Vista 3/ 25/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.48
Septic Tanks and Cesspools
Sections:
8.48.010 Adoption County Regulations Relating to Septic Tanks and Cesspools
8.48.020 Health Permit Fees
Section 8.48.010 Adoption County Regulations Relating to Septic Tanks and
Cesspools
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of regulating septic tanks and
cesspools, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
Chapter 3 of Division 8 of Title 6, relating to septic tanks and cesspools. One copy of the County
Code is filed in the Office of the City Clerk and is adopted and incorporated as though fully set
out at length in this section and from the date on which the ordinance codified in this section
takes effect, the provisions thereof are controlling within the limits of the city.
Prior Code 25- 3; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 90- 16,
Amended, 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8.48.020 Health Permit Fees
Every person applying for a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall, at the time
of making an application for such permit, pay a fee the exact amount of which shall be
determined by the county and kept on record by the County Department of Health Services and
filed in the City Clerk' s office.
Prior Code 25- 4; Ord. No. 63- 1, Enacted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63)
8. 48 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.50
Urinating or Defecating in Public
Sections:
8. 50.010 Urinating or Defecating in Public
Section 8. 50.010 Urinating or Defecating in Public
No person shall urinate or defecate in or on any street, sidewalk, alley, plaza, park,
public building or publicly maintained facility, or in any place open to the public or exposed to
public view. This section shall not apply to urination or defecation which is done in any fixture
provided for such purposes in any restroom or other facility designed for the sanitary disposal of
human waste. Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Ord. No. 97- 2, Enacted, 01/ 28/ 97)
8. 50 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.52
Storage and Disposal of Medical Waste
Sections:
8. 52.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Storage and Disposal of
Medical
Wastes
8. 52.020 Violation - Penalty
8. 52.030 Additional Remedies
Section 8. 52.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Storage and Disposal of
Medical Wastes
There is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from infectious and medical wastes, and establishing
fees for permits, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory
Ordinances, Chapter 12 of Division 8 of Title 6: Sections 68. 1201 through 68. 1211 inclusive,
Section 68.501 Subsection ( 16), Section 68. 504 and Section 65. 107h( 7), relating to the
regulation of the storage and disposal of medical wastes, and related fees. Not less than three
copies of said code are filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and from the date on which this
section takes effect the provisions thereof are controlling within the limits of the city.
Prior Code 14- 1. 1; Ord. No. 89- 36, Amended 9/ 11/ 89)
Section 8. 52.020 Violation - Penalty
A. Criminal Penalty. Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year, or a fine
not exceeding $ 10, 000, or both.
B. Civil Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $ 15,000 for each such violation.
Prior Code 14- 1. 1; Ord. No. 89- 36, Amended 9/ 11/ 89)
Section 8. 52.030 Additional Remedies
The civil and criminal provisions of this section are remedies in addition to any existing
remedy authorized by law and are not to be construed as conflicting with or in dereliction of, any
provisions of this chapter or of this code or of law. Said provisions are to be construed as
independent and nonexclusive and in no way conditioned upon each other.
Prior Code 14- 1. 1; Ord. No. 89- 36, Amended 9/ 11/ 89)
8. 52 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.56
Water Well Standards
Sections:
8. 56.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Water and Well Standards
8. 56.020 Violation - Penalty
Section 8. 56.010 Adoption of County Regulations Relating to Water and Well
Standards
There is adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of setting water and well
standards, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
Chapter 4 of Article 1 of Division 7 of Title 6, relating to water and well standards. One copy of
the County Code is filed in the Office of the City Clerk and the same is adopted and
incorporated as though fully set out at length in this section and from the date on which the
ordinance codified in this section takes effect, the provisions thereof are controlling within the
limits of the city.
Prior Code 14- 36; Ord. No. 86- 21, Adopted 5/ 13/ 86; Ord. No. 90- 16, Amended 5/ 29/ 90)
Section 8. 56.020 Violation - Penalty
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction is punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 14- 37; Ord. No. 86- 21, Adopted 5/ 13/ 86)
8. 56 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.60
Weed and Rubbish Abatement Procedures
Sections:
Section 8. 60.010 Definitions
Section 8. 60.020 Certain Weeds, Grasses Declared Public Nuisance
Section 8. 60.030 Waste Matter Declared Public Nuisance
Section 8. 60.040 Notice to Clean Premises - Issuance - Form
Section 8. 60.050 Service of Notice
Section 8. 60.060 Right of Appeal to City Council
Section 8. 60.070 Time Limit for Removal of Nuisance
Section 8. 60.080 Abatement of Nuisance by Fire Chief - Report
Section 8. 60.090 Report and Account to be Set for Council Hearing
Section 8. 60. 100 Hearing before City Council on Report and Account
Section 8. 60. 110 Payment of Costs Prior to Hearing
Section 8. 60. 120 Adoption of Government Code Provisions Relating to Collection of
Assessments
Section 8. 60. 130 Violation - Penalty
Section 8. 60.010 Definitions
Waste material," for the purpose of this chapter, means unused or discarded matter
having no substantial market value, which is exposed to the elements and is not enclosed in any
structure or otherwise concealed from public view, and which consists ( without limitation or
exclusion by enumeration) of such matter and material as:
1. Rubble, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile.
2. Rubbish, crates, cartons, metal and glass containers.
3. Vehicle bodies and parts.
Prior Code 11- 20; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.020 Certain Weeds, Grasses Declared Public Nuisance
A. All weeds, dry grasses, dead shrubs, dead trees, rubbish or any material growing
upon the streets, sidewalks or upon private property within the city, which bears seeds of a
wingy or downy nature or which by reason of their size, manner of growth and location
constitute a fire hazard to any building, improvements, crops or other property; and weeds and
grasses which, when dry, will in reasonable probability constitute such a fire hazard, are
declared to be a public nuisance.
B. Cultivated and useful grasses and pasture shall not be declared a public
nuisance. However, if the Fire Chief or his authorized representative determines it necessary to
protect adjacent improved property from fire exposure, an adequate firebreak may be required.
Prior Code 11- 18; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.030 Waste Matter Declared Public Nuisance
Waste matter, as defined in Section 8. 60.010, which by reason of its location and
character is unsightly and interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of property by neighbors, or
which would materially hamper or interfere with the prevention or suppression of fire upon the
8. 60 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
premises, or the abatement of a nuisance, as defined by Section 8. 60. 020, is declared a public
nuisance.
Prior Code 11- 19; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.040 Notice to Clean Premises - Issuance - Form
If it is determined that a public nuisance, as defined in Sections 8. 60.020 and 8. 60. 030,
exists on any lot or premises, or upon any sidewalk, parking or street adjacent to such lot or
premises, the Chief of the Fire Department shall cause a notice to be issued to abate such
nuisance. Such notice shall be headed: " NOTICE TO CLEAN PREMISES" in letters not less
than one inch in length and which shall, in legible characters, direct the abatement of the
nuisance and refer to this chapter and section for particulars. Notices served by means of other
than posting as provided by this chapter shall contain a description of property in general terms
reasonably sufficient to identify the location of the nuisance.
Prior Code 11- 21; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.050 Service of Notice
The notice required by Section 8. 60.040 may be served in any of the following manners:
A. By personal service on the owner, occupant, or person in charge or control of the
property.
B. By regular mail addressed to the owner or person in charge and control of the
property, at the address shown on the last available assessment roll, or as otherwise known.
C. By posting at a conspicuous place on the land or abutting public right- of-way and
insertion of an advertisement at least once a week for the period of two weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city. Such newspaper advertisement shall be a general notice that
property in the city has been posted in accordance with this chapter and contain a general
statement of the effect of such postings. The date of such newspaper advertisements shall not
be considered in computing the appeal periods provided by this chapter.
Prior Code 11- 22; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.060 Right of Appeal to City Council
Within ten days from the date of posting, mailing or personal service of the required
notice, the owner or person occupying or controlling such lot or premises affected may appeal to
the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City Clerk. At the
regular meeting or regular adjourned meeting of the City Council, not less than five days nor
more than 30 days thereafter, it shall proceed to hear and pass upon such appeal, and the
decision of the City Council thereupon shall be final and conclusive.
Prior Code 11- 23; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.070 Time Limit for Removal of Nuisance
It is the duty of the owner, the agent of the owner or the person in possession of any lot
or premises in the city within ten days from the date of notification as provided in this chapter, or
in case of an appeal to the City Council, within ten days from the determination thereof, unless
the same is sustained, to remove the nuisance as stated.
Prior Code 11- 24; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
8. 60 ( 2) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 60.080 Abatement of Nuisance by Fire Chief - Report
If the owner fails or neglects to remove the nuisance as defined in this chapter, within
the time specified in this chapter, the Chief of the Fire Department shall cause such nuisance to
be abated. The abatement work may be done by City crews or by private contractor. A report
of the proceedings and an accurate account of the cost of abating the nuisance on each
separate property shall be filed with the City Council.
Prior Code 11- 25; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60.090 Report and Account to be Set for Council Hearing
Upon the filing of a report as provided in Section 8. 60. 080, the City Clerk shall set the
report and account for hearing by the City Council at the first regular or adjourned meeting
which will be held at least seven and no more than 30 calendar days after the date of filing, and
shall post a copy of such report and account and notice of the time and place of hearing in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance of the Council Chambers in the City Hall.
Prior Code 11- 26; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60. 100 Hearing before City Council on Report and Account
The City Council shall consider the report and account at the time set for hearing,
together with any objections or protests by any interested parties. Any owner of land or person
interested therein may present a written or oral protest or objection to the report and account.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall either approve the report and account as
submitted, or as modified or corrected by the City Council. The amounts so approved shall be
liens upon the respective lots or premises, and the City Council shall adopt a resolution
assessing such amounts as liens upon the respective parcels of land as they are shown upon
the last available assessment roll, and determining that such weeds, grasses, dead trees, dead
shrubs, and waste matter constitute a public nuisance. The City Clerk shall prepare and file
with the county auditor a certified copy of such resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code 11- 27; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60. 110 Payment of Costs Prior to Hearing
The City Clerk may accept payment of any amount due at any time prior to the City
Council hearing, as called for in Section 8. 60. 100.
Prior Code 11- 28; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
Section 8. 60. 120 Adoption of Government Code Provisions Relating to Collection of
Assessments
The provisions of Sections 39580 through 39586, inclusive, of the Government Code of
the state are incorporated by reference and made a part of this chapter. The County Auditor
shall enter each assessment in the county tax roll opposite the parcel of land. The amount of
the assessment shall be collected at the time and in the manner of ordinary municipal taxes;
and, if delinquent, the amount is subject to the same penalties and procedure of foreclosure and
sale as is provided for ordinary municipal taxes.
Prior Code 11- 29; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
8. 60 ( 3) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 60. 130 Violation - Penalty
The owner, occupant or agent of any lot or premises within the city who permits or
allows the existence of a public nuisance, as defined in this chapter, upon any lot or premises
owned, occupied or controlled by him, or who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof is punishable according to the provisions
of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 11- 30; Ord. No. 67- 5, Adopted 2/ 21/ 67)
8. 60 ( 4) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.64
Multiple Responses by Law Enforcement to Loud Parties
Sections:
Section 8. 64.010 Purpose
Section 8. 64.020 Definitions
Section 8. 64.030 First Response
Section 8. 64.040 Subsequent Responses
Section 8. 64.050 Confidentiality
Section 8. 64.010 Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a source of recovery for the costs incurred by
the City and the county in returning a second or subsequent time to the scene of a disturbance
of the peace.
Ord. No. 91- 30, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 8. 64.020 Definitions
A. " Responsible person" is the person who owns the property where the party,
gathering, or event takes place and/ or the person in charge of the premises and/ or the person
who organized the party, gathering, or event. If the person responsible for the event is a minor,
then the parents or guardians of that minor will jointly and severally be liable for the costs
incurred for second and subsequent City and/ or county responses.
B. " Cost of second and subsequent responses" means the full compensation of
the City employees, officials, agents and contract officers for the amount of time actually
expended responding to or in remaining at the disturbance of the peace; together with the actual
cost of any medical treatment to employees injured while responding to disturbance; and the
costs of repairing any county equipment or property damaged or destroyed while responding to
the disturbance.
Ord. No. 91- 30, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 8. 64.030 First Response
A. During a first response to a disturbance of the peace occurring on private
property, the responding officer(s) may, among other things, deliver to the responsible person or
persons, a " Notice of Violation: First Response" which shall contain a message stating the
following:
This notice of violation is given to you as a result of a first
response of the Vista Sheriff's Station to a disturbance of the
peace occurring in violation of Penal Code Section 415. You will
be charged all City and county personnel and equipment
expenses incurred as a result of any second or subsequent
responses to this location.
B. The " Notice of Violation: First Response" may contain other information as
deemed necessary by the City Manager to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 30, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
8. 64 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 64.040 Subsequent Responses
A. If the Sheriff's Department is required to respond a second time to a disturbance
of the peace and a " Notice of Violation: First Response" has been delivered to the responsible
person or persons, then the City shall commence computing the response costs.
B. A statement of the charges incurred by the City and the county in their second
and subsequent responses shall be prepared and delivered to the responsible person or
persons.
C. Compensation for salaries required during a second or subsequent response
shall be deemed a debt to the City and the City shall be authorized to collect through
appropriate measures. This may include expenses for actions in court necessary to recover
such costs. The responsible person or persons shall also be liable to the county for any
damage to equipment or property, or injury to contract employees, resulting from a second or
subsequent response.
Ord. No. 91- 30, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 8. 64.050 Confidentiality
Information furnished and secured pursuant to this chapter shall be confidential in
character and shall not be subject to public inspection and shall be kept so that the contents
thereof shall not be known except to persons charged with the administration of this chapter or
pursuant to a Court Order.
Ord. No. 91- 30, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
8. 64 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.66
Loitering for Drug- Related Purposes
Sections:
Section 8. 66.010 Acts Prohibited
Section 8. 66.020 Definitions
Section 8. 66.030 Circumstances
Section 8. 66.040 Violation
Section 8. 66.050 Enforcement
Section 8. 66.010 Acts Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to loiter in, on or near any thoroughfare or place open to the
public or near any public or private place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the
purpose of engaging in drug- related activity defined as offenses in Chapters 6 and 6. 5 of
Division 10 of the California Health and Safety Code.
Ord. No. 94- 3, Enacted, 02/ 08/ 94)
Section 8. 66.020 Definitions
Known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller" is a person who has, within the
knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within this state of any violation
involving the use, possession, or sale of any of the substances referred to in Chapters 6 and 6. 5
of Division 10 of the California Health and Safety Code, or such person has been convicted of
any violation of any of the provisions of said sections or substantially similar laws of any political
subdivision of this state or of any other state; or a person who displays physical characteristics
of drug intoxication or usage, such as " needle tracks;" or a person who possesses drug
paraphernalia.
Ord. No. 94- 3, Enacted, 02/ 08/ 94)
Section 8. 66.030 Circumstances
Among circumstances that may be considered in determining whether such purpose is
manifested are that the person:
A. Is a known drug user, possessor, or seller.
B. Is currently subject to an order prohibiting his or her presence in a high drug
activity geographic area.
C. Behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion that he or she is
about to engage in or is then engaged in an unlawful drug- related activity, including by way of
example only, acting as a " lookout."
D. Is physically identified by the officer as a member of a gang or association which
has as its purpose illegal drug activity.
E. Transfers small objects or packages for currency in furtive fashion.
F. Takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer.
G. Tries to conceal himself or herself or any object which reasonably could be
involved in an unlawful drug- related activity.
H. Is in an area that is known for unlawful drug use and trafficking.
I. Is on or in premises that have been reported to law enforcement as a place
suspected of unlawful drug activity.
8. 66 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
J. Is in or within six feet of any vehicles registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor, or seller, or a person for whom there is an outstanding warrant for a crime involving
drug- related activity.
Ord. No. 94- 3, Enacted, 02/ 08/ 94)
Section 8. 66.040 Violation
Any individual who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and
is subject to six months in jail and a $ 1, 000 fine.
Ord. No. 94- 3, Enacted, 02/ 08/ 94)
Section 8. 66.050 Enforcement
A. The San Diego County Sheriff's Department is responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter.
B. Officers charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall receive specialized
training in determining whether the above circumstances are considered appropriate for
enforcement action.
Ord. No. 94- 3, Enacted, 02/ 08/ 94)
8. 66 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.68
Prohibition of Alcoholic Beverages
Sections:
Section 8. 68.010 Purpose
Section 8. 68.020 Conditions for Consumption
Section 8. 68.030 Exception
Section 8. 68.040 Enforcement
Section 8. 68.010 Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to restrict the consumption of alcoholic beverages within
Specific Plan 26.
Ord. No. 92- 3, Enacted, 02/ 25/ 92)
Section 8. 68.020 Conditions for Consumption
It is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage at any time on any
publicly owned property, or while on private property within the public view without the
expressed permission of the owner, his agent, or the person in lawful possession thereof. It is
also unlawful to possess, on any publicly owned property an opened or unsealed container
holding an alcoholic beverage. " Publicly owned property," as used in this chapter, shall mean
any road, street, sidewalk, trail, park, plaza, or other facility within the City of Vista which is
publicly owned, leased, or beneficially used by the City of Vista or another public agency.
Ord. No. 92- 3, Enacted, 02/ 25/ 1992; Ord. No. 2001- 18, Amended, 10/ 25/ 01)
Section 8. 68.030 Exception
Notwithstanding the foregoing, consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages is
permitted on publicly owned property if the consumption or possession occurs in the manner
and in the areas authorized under a City- approved special event permit, facilities use permit, or
other City approval.
Ord. No. 92- 3, Enacted, 02/ 25/ 1992; Ord. No. 2001- 18, Amended, 10/ 25/ 01)
Section 8. 68.040 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the San Diego County Sheriff's
Department and any other authorized representatives of the City. All violations shall be
punishable as an infraction in accordance with Chapter 1- 10 of the Vista Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 92- 3, Enacted, 02/ 25/ 1992; Ord. No. 2001- 18, Amended, 10/ 25/ 01)
8. 68 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.70
Private Ambulance Services
Sections:
8. 70.010 Purpose and Intent
8. 70.020 Definitions
8. 70.030 Prohibition of Non- Licensed Ambulance Service
8. 70.040 Exemptions
8. 70.050 Permit Application
8. 70.060 Decision on Application
8.70.070 Grounds for Denial
8. 70.080 Notification of Denial of Application
8. 70.090 Term of Permit
8.70. 100 Reporting Changes in Information Upon Which Permit is Issued
8.70.110 Application Fee
8. 70. 120 General Requirements
8. 70. 130 Prohibited Activities
8. 70. 140 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
8. 70. 150 Notice and Hearing upon Suspension or Revocation
8. 70. 160 Appeal of Decisions by Fire Chief
8. 70. 170 Non- Transferability of Permit
8. 70. 180 Renewal of Permit
8. 70. 190 Temporary Permits
8. 70.200 Provision of Emergency Service
Section 8. 70.010 Purpose and Intent
By enacting this chapter, the City Council intends to further its legitimate objective of
assuring safe, reliable, qualified, and adequate medical transportation services for the sick,
injured and disabled by establishing licensing requirements for private providers for nonemergency
medical transportation services and to relieve and assist public emergency service
providers during periods when the need for such emergency services exceeds the capacity
or availability of the public service providers.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.020 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings given below:
Ambulance" means any motor vehicle or aircraft specially constructed, modified or
equipped and used for the purpose of transporting sick, injured, disabled, convalescent, infirm or
otherwise incapacitated persons, including vehicles used for critical care transport. Ambulance
does not include a gurney van transport or wheelchair transport designed for the transportation of
persons who are wheelchair users.
Ambulance Provider" means a person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
organization which furnishes or offers to furnish ambulance service to the public, its employees,
or visitors or residents of the City of Vista. " Ambulance Provider" includes all organizations that
provide or operate an ambulance on private property whether or not required to do so by local,
8. 70 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
state, or federal law or regulation. " Ambulance Provider" does not include federal, state, or local
government entities.
Ambulance Service" means the activity, business or service, for hire, profit, or
otherwise, of being prepared for, responding to requests for and/ or transporting one or more
persons by ambulance on or in any of the streets, roads, highways, alleys, or any public way or
place in the City of Vista. " Ambulance Service" includes the activity of organizations that
provide or operate an ambulance on private property whether or not required to do so by local,
state, or federal law or regulation. " Ambulance Service" does not include situations in which the
activity is neither initiated nor terminated in the City of Vista.
County Ambulance Provider's Permit" means written authorization by San Diego
County to provide emergency or non- emergency ambulance service within the county.
County Critical Care Transport Provider' s Permit" means written authorization by
San Diego County to provide emergency or non- emergency critical care transport within the
county.
County Non- Emergency Medical Transport Provider' s Permit" means written
authorization by San Diego County to provide non- emergency medical transport service.
Emergency Call" means a request for an ambulance to transport or assist persons in
apparent sudden need of medical attention or, an ambulance transport that is initially classified as
a non- emergency call that becomes an emergency call due to a change in the patient' s medical
condition.
Emergency Service" means the service performed in response to an emergency call.
Gurney Van Transport" means any vehicle, whether or not it is specially constructed,
modified or equipped, that is used for the purpose of transporting patients who cannot travel in
an upright, sitting position, or who are confined to a wheelchair, and for whom the need for any
medical care, treatment or procedure is not required, likely or foreseeable.
Non- Emergency Call" means an ambulance call for a purpose other than an
emergency.
Private Call" means any call for services that is received by an ambulance provider
other than through the 911 system.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.030 Prohibition of Non- Licensed Ambulance Service
It is prohibited for any person engaged in providing ambulance services to provide either
emergency or non- emergency ambulance services within the City of Vista without having a valid
permit to provide such services issued by the City pursuant to this chapter. Any person in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to penalty pursuant to Section
1. 16. 010. D. of this Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.040 Exemptions
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any federal or state agent, or to
employees of any agency of the United States government or State of California, while acting in
the scope and course of their duties, or to any ambulance provider or its employees who have
been requested to provide ambulance services by any authorized officer or employee of the City
of Vista or the County of San Diego during any emergency declared pursuant to the California
Emergency Services Act, Title 2, Division 1, Chapter 7 of the Government Code.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
8. 70 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 70.050 Permit Application
Applications for permits to provide ambulance services within the City of Vista may be
obtained from the Vista Fire Department. Every application for a permit to provide ambulance
services shall be submitted in writing to the Fire Chief of the City of Vista, on forms approved or
provided by the Fire Chief, and shall include all of the following information:
A. The name, legal status, and business address of the applicant, along with the
name( s) and address(es) of each owner, partner, officer, director, and every share holder
having control of ten percent or more of the applicant's stock.
B. The name(s) under which the applicant has or is engaged, or proposes to
engage, in ambulance services.
C. A copy of a valid business license issued by the City of Vista.
D. A copy of a valid County Ambulance Provider's Permit or a County Critical Care
Transport Provider' s Permit or a County Non- Emergency Medical Transport Provider' s Permit.
If the applicant holds more than one of these permits, a copy of each one must be provided.
E. Any additional information which the Fire Chief deems reasonably necessary.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.060 Decision on Application
Within 30 days after having received a completed application for an ambulance services
permit, the Fire Chief shall determine whether or not the permit is approved, and shall notify the
applicant in writing of the determination.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.070 Grounds for Denial
The Fire Chief may reject or deny any application for an ambulance services permit, or a
renewal of such permit, upon a finding of any of the following:
A. The application is incomplete.
B. The applicant, or any owner, partner, officer, director of applicant, or any
representative or agent of applicant, has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of a material fact in the application.
C. The applicant, or any owner, partner, officer, director of applicant, or any
shareholder controlling ten percent or more of applicant' s stock, has had an ambulance services
permit issued by the City of Vista suspended or revoked.
D. The applicant, or any owner, partner, officer, director of applicant, or any
shareholder controlling ten percent or more of applicant' s stock, has had revoked a County
Ambulance Provider' s Permit, a County Critical Care Transport Provider' s Permit, or a County
Non- emergency Medical Transport Provider' s Permit.
E. The applicant, or any owner, partner, officer, director of applicant, or any
shareholder controlling ten percent or more of applicant' s stock, has been convicted of any crime
which reasonably relates to the suitability of the applicant to provide ambulance services to
persons who are in a vulnerable condition. Such crimes may include, but are not limited to,
theft-related offenses, sexual offenses, violence against a person, and drug or alcohol offenses.
When making a determination whether a permit should be denied on this basis, the Fire Chief
shall consider the nature of the offense, its remoteness in time, and whether the offender has
been rehabilitated. A plea or a verdict of guilty, a finding of guilty by a court in a trial without a
jury, a plea of nolo contendere or a forfeiture of bail is deemed a conviction for purposes of this
chapter.
F. The applicant, or any owner, partner, officer, director of applicant, or any
shareholder controlling ten percent or more of applicant's stock, has violated any provision of
8. 70 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
this chapter, or any provision of any law or ordinance law regulating ambulance services.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.080 Notification of Denial of Application
A. Notification of Denial: upon denial of any application, the Fire Chief shall notify
the applicant of the reasons for such denial in writing within 30 days of having received a
completed application. Such notice shall be given in writing and delivered by personal service
or mailed to the applicant' s last address provided in the application.
B. Request for Review: upon receiving notice of denial of an application for
ambulance services, the applicant may request a review hearing with the Fire Chief. A request
for review shall be made in writing and filed with the Fire Chief within ten days from the date on
which the notice of denial was delivered or mailed. The review hearing shall be conducted not
more than 20 days after receipt of the request for review. The Fire Chief shall notify the
applicant in writing of the time and place for the review hearing at least ten days prior to the
review hearing. At the review hearing, the applicant may present additional information or
evidence to rebut the grounds for denial. The decision of the Fire Chief to deny an application
for a permit shall be subject to appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 8. 70. 160.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.090 Term of Permit
Except for temporary permits issued pursuant to Section 8. 70. 190, each permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire on June 30, regardless of the date of
issuance, unless prior thereto revoked by the City.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01; Ord. No. 2010- 11, Amended, 5/ 11/ 10)
Section 8. 70. 100 Reporting Changes in Information Upon Which Permit is Issued
Each applicant or permit holder shall report to the Fire Chief any changes to the
information submitted by the applicant at the time of the application within ten days of the date of
the change.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 110 Application Fee
In addition to any other fees or taxes that may apply to the provision of ambulance
services, there is hereby established and imposed on every application for an ambulance
services license, an application fee for the purpose of defraying the cost of reviewing each
application and issuing the permit. The application fee is non- refundable, unless the amount of
the fee paid was in error. Initially, upon the effective date of this chapter the application fee
shall be established at the rate of $250. The City Council may, from time to time by adoption of
a resolution, adjust the amount of the application fee to reflect changes in the cost of reviewing
each application and issuing the permit.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 120 General Requirements
Every ambulance services permit issued pursuant to this chapter to any ambulance
service provider is issued subject to the following conditions and requirements.
8. 70 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. The service provider shall, immediately upon receiving any private call for
ambulance service requiring emergency medical assistance, refer such call to the designated
911 emergency dispatcher of the jurisdiction in which the emergency is located. If the call
originates in the City of Vista, the call may be routed directly to the emergency line for the Vista
Fire Department.
B. The service provider shall disclose to every person requesting services that the
ambulance is not available for an emergency call, except when the ambulance service provider
has been authorized for emergency call responses by the Vista Fire Chief.
C. In the event that a medical or other emergency occurs during the non- emergency
transport of any patient, whether or not due to the patient' s medical condition, the service
provider shall immediately contact the 911 emergency operator for instructions and shall follow
the instructions given by the 911 emergency dispatcher and the base hospital.
D. The service provider shall make an audio recording of all telephone and radio
calls for ambulance services originating or occurring within the City of Vista, and shall maintain
such audio recordings for a minimum period of 100 days, if the call originated from the City of
Vista.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 130 Prohibited Activities
Any ambulance service provider acting under a permit issued by the City of Vista shall not
engage in any of the following activities:
A. Using any scanner or radio monitoring device to respond to any call for medical
transportation, unless a request for such response was made by the person placing the call, or
by any public safety dispatch center having jurisdiction in the territory in which the response is to
be made.
B. Responding to the location of any medical transportation request without having
been authorized and assigned to respond to such request by the public safety dispatch center
having jurisdiction in the territory in which the request is made.
C. Providing emergency medical services within the City of Vista, except in the
event of emergencies occurring during a non- emergency transport resulting from a sudden or
unexpected change in the condition of the patient, and then only under instruction by the 911
emergency dispatcher or base hospital.
D. Soliciting, advertising, or offering medical transportation services within the City
of Vista, without having a valid ambulance services permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
E. Soliciting, advertising, or offering to provide emergency medical services within
the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 140 Suspension or Revocation of Permit
The Fire Chief may initiate a revocation or suspension of an ambulance services permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for any of the following causes:
A. The discovery or occurrence of any information, event, or condition described in
Section 8. 70.070 giving grounds for denial of the application.
B. A violation of any of the provisions of Sections 8. 70. 120 or 8. 70. 130.
C. The occurrence of any event or conduct in providing ambulance services within
the City of Vista, which results in endangerment to the health, safety, or welfare of any person.
Except in those circumstances in which the Fire Chief finds and determines there exists
an immediate threat to the health and safety of the public, the suspension or revocation of an
ambulance service permit under this chapter shall be subject to ( i) prior notification by the Fire
8. 70 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chief of the intent to revoke or suspend any ambulance services permit, which includes the
grounds for such revocation or suspension, and ( ii) an opportunity for the permit holder to appear
and respond to the charges or causes given for the revocation or suspension. In circumstances
in which the Fire Chief finds and determines there exists an immediate threat to the health and
safety of the public, the Fire Chief may immediately suspend or revoke an ambulance services
permit without prior notice. However, such notice and an opportunity to respond shall be
provided by the Fire Chief as soon as can reasonably be arranged following the suspension or
revocation.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 150 Notice and Hearing upon Suspension or Revocation
Upon determining that cause exists for suspension or revocation of an ambulance
services permit, the Fire Chief shall give a written notice to the permit holder of the causes for
such suspension or revocation, and shall include a date, time and place for a hearing to review
such causes. The notice of suspension or revocation shall be delivered to the applicant, at the
applicant' s address of record under the permit, either by personal service or by depositing the
notice in any depository of the U. S. Postal Service, first class postage prepaid, within 72 hours
of the decision to suspend or revoke. If the suspension or revocation is not effective
immediately, pursuant to Section 8. 70. 140, the effective date for the suspension or revocation
shall not be made prior to the date set for the hearing. The date set for hearing shall not be
made earlier than seven days from the date of the notice.
The permittee may appear at the hearing on the date, time and place set in the notice of
suspension or revocation or, at least 24 hours prior to such date and time, may for good and
sufficient reason request an alternate date and time for such hearing, but not beyond seven
days from the date and time originally set by the Fire Chief. At the hearing on suspension or
revocation, the permittee may be represented by a person of the applicant' s own choosing, and
may present evidence to rebut the grounds for suspension or revocation.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 160 Appeal of Decisions by Fire Chief
A decision of the Fire Chief to deny an application for an ambulance services permit
under Section 8. 70. 080, or to suspend or revoke a permit pursuant to Section 8. 70. 150 shall be
final, unless within ten days of the date of the decision by the Fire Chief, a written appeal is filed
with the City Clerk of the City setting forth the specific reasons why the denial of the application,
or the suspension or revocation of the permit, is improper. Upon receiving notice that a timely
appeal has been filed from the City Clerk, the City Manager shall cause an administrative
hearing to be conducted on the appeal. The City Manager may conduct the hearing, or he or
she may designate a hearing officer. The hearing on the appeal shall be held not more than 60
days from the date on which the appeal was timely filed with the City Clerk, unless a later date
is agreed upon by the appellant.
At the appeal hearing, both the appellant and the Fire Chief may present evidence
relevant to the grounds for appeal and the decision to deny the application, or to revoke or
suspend the permit. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the City Manager or hearing officer
may uphold, modify, or reverse the decision of the Fire Chief. Within five days of the conclusion
of the hearing, the City Manager or hearing officer shall provide the decision in writing to the
appellant and to the Fire Chief, and shall file a copy of the decision with the City Clerk. The
decision of the City Manager or the hearing officer shall be final.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
8. 70 ( 6) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 70. 170 Non- Transferability of Permit
Permits issued pursuant to this chapter are non- transferable. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 8.70. 100, the holder of an ambulance service permit shall notify the Fire
Chief at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the sale or transfer of the permittee' s business.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 180 Renewal of Permit
At least 30 days prior to the expiration of a current valid permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, an application for renewal of the permit may be filed in writing with the Fire Chief on
such forms or in such manner as the Fire Chief may determine. All applications for renewal
shall identify and include any changes in the information provided on the application for the
current application. The application for renewal shall include all information required for
issuance of a permit, including a permit application fee, pursuant to Section 8. 70. 110. Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed as requiring automatic renewal of any permit upon its
expiration. An application for renewal of a permit shall be treated, in all respects, as an initial
application, and the burden of proof respecting compliance with this chapter shall be upon the
applicant.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70. 190 Temporary Permits
The Fire Chief, in his or her discretion, may issue a temporary ambulance services permit
to an ambulance services provider based outside the county, if the ambulance services provider is
properly licensed by the California Highway Patrol. Such temporary permits shall be limited to
no more than 30 days per calendar year, and shall be issued only in connection with special
events. The Fire Chief shall require that any ambulance services provider who is issued a
temporary permit shall meet all of the requirements of this chapter, including payment of the
permit application fee, except that a temporary permit issued by the County of San Diego
authorizing the ambulance service provider to provide ambulance services may be substituted for
a County Ambulance Provider' s Permit.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
Section 8. 70.200 Provision of Emergency Service
Except as otherwise permitted by Section 8. 70. 040, no ambulance provider shall respond
to any emergency call unless the response occurs pursuant to a contract with the City authorizing
a response when the City' s capacity to provide emergency service is exhausted or the City
otherwise determines that supplemental emergency service is required. The City Manager shall
be authorized to approve and execute any such contract. This chapter shall not otherwise
control or govern any aspect of the services provided under such contract, its formation, or its
termination.
Ord. No. 2001- 13, Added, 08/ 24/ 01)
8. 70 ( 7) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 72
Conveyance of Shopping Carts on Public Land
Sections:
8. 72.010 Conveyance of Shopping Carts on Public Land
8. 72.020 Retrieval and Detention of Abandoned Shopping Carts
8. 72.030 Violation- Penalty
Section 8. 72.010 Conveyance of Shopping Carts on Public Land
A. It shall be unlawful for a person to convey a shopping cart on public land except
under the following circumstances:
1. To directly return a shopping cart to the store that owns or leases the
shopping cart, without putting the shopping cart to another personal use.
2. To use the shopping cart to transport groceries or items purchased from
the store which owns or leases the shopping cart, provided that the use of the shopping cart
was authorized by the store as required by the California Business and Professions Code, and
the shopping cart is used to convey the items directly from the store to where the items will be
unloaded.
3. To engage in any lawful business of collecting, returning, or retrieving
shopping carts that is permitted by the California Business and Professions Code.
B. At all times that a shopping cart is lawfully conveyed on public land the person
conveying it shall maintain direct physical control over the shopping cart.
C. For purposes of this section the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
1. Convey" shall mean to push, roll, transport, or otherwise move.
2. Public land" shall mean any road, street, sidewalk, trail, park, or other
land or facility within the City of Vista which is publicly owned, leased, or beneficially used by the
City of Vista or another public agency.
3. Shopping cart" shall mean a basket which is mounted on wheels or a
similar device generally used in a retail establishment by a customer for the purpose of
transporting goods of any kind.
4. Another Personal Use" means any use other than the use of
transporting groceries or items purchased from the retail store which owns or leases the
shopping cart.
D. This section is declarative of existing law. This ordinance shall not be construed
or applied in any manner which is in conflict with the provisions of the California Business and
Professions Code or any other provision of state or federal law.
Ord. No. 2001- 17, Added, 9/ 25/ 01; Ord. No. 2020- 02, Amended, 3/ 10/20)
Section 8. 72.020 Retrieval and Detention of Abandoned Shopping Carts
The City Manager is authorized to establish and administer a program for the retrieval,
detention, and return of shopping carts, as permitted by the Business and Professions Code,
including Section 22435. 7 thereof.
Ord. No. 2001- 17, Added, 9/ 25/ 01)
8. 72 (l) Vista 4/ 10/2020)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 72.030 Violation- Penalty
A. A first violation or failure to comply with any provision of Section 8. 72.010 shall
constitute an infraction for the first offense.
B. Any subsequent violation of this section alleged to have been committed within
two years from the date of the first conviction as an infraction shall be charged as a
misdemeanor for each offense committed thereafter; and, each conviction shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $ 1, 000, by imprisonment in the City or County Jail for a period not to
exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Ord. No. 2020- 02, Added, 3/ 10/ 20)
8. 72 (2) Vista 4/ 10/2020)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8.74
Novelty Lighters
Sections:
8. 74.010 Definitions
8. 74.020 Prohibition
8. 74.030 Exceptions
8. 74.040 Enforcement
8. 74.050 Violation and Penalties
Section 8. 74.010 Definitions
Novelty Lighter" means a lighter which is especially attractive to children ten years or
younger due to a toy- like design or other features, such as buttons or devices that initiate visual
effects, flashing lights, or musical sounds that might encourage a child to use the lighter.
Ord. No. 2007- 15, Added, 9/ 11/ 07)
Section 8. 74.020 Prohibition
The retail sale, offer of retail sale, gift or distribution of any novelty lighter within the City
of Vista is prohibited. This prohibition is inapplicable to: ( 1) novelty lighters which are being
actively transported through the City; or ( 2) novelty lighters located in a warehouse closed to the
public for purposes of retail sales.
Ord. No. 2007- 15, Added, 9/ 11/ 07)
Section 8. 74.030 Exceptions
The term novelty lighter excludes: ( 1) any lighter manufactured prior to 1980; and ( 2)
any lighter which has been permanently modified so as to be incapable to produce combustion
or a flame.
Ord. No. 2007- 15, Added, 9/ 11/ 07)
Section 8. 74.040 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Fire Marshal, any police officer,
any Code Enforcement Officer, and any other City official authorized to enforce any provision of
the Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2007- 15, Added, 9/ 11/ 07)
Section 8. 74.050 Violation and Penalties
Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of an infraction and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as prescribed in Section 1. 16. 010 of the Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2007- 15, Added, 9/ 11/ 07)
8. 74 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 75
Mobile Dispensing and Delivery of Marijuana
Sections:
8. 75.010 Definitions
8. 75.020 Prohibition on Mobile Dispensaries
8. 75.030 Prohibition on Delivery of Marijuana
8. 75.040 Carriage of Marijuana
8. 75.050 Penalty
Section 8. 75.010 Definitions
Ord. No. 2015- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2019-20, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 8. 75.020 Prohibition on Mobile Dispensaries
Ord. No. 2015- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2019-20, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 8. 75.030 Prohibition on Delivery of Marijuana
Ord. No. 2015- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2019-20, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 8. 75.040 Carriage of Marijuana
Ord. No. 2015- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2019-20, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 8. 75. 050 Penalty
Ord. No. 2015- 21, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2019-20, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 19)
8. 75 ( l) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 8. 78
Sidewalk Vending
Sections:
Section 8. 78.010 Purpose
Section 8. 78.020 Definitions
Section 8. 78.030 Prohibition on Sidewalk Vending Without a License; Exceptions
Section 8. 78.040 Applications for Sidewalk Vending Licenses
Section 8. 78.050 License Decisions; Issuing Licenses
Section 8. 78.060 License Term; Renewal
Section 8. 78.070 Revocation or Suspension of Licenses
Section 8. 78.080 Appeals
Section 8. 78.090 Vendor Cart Permits; Renewals
Section 8. 78. 100 General Operating Rules for Sidewalk Vendors
Section 8. 78. 110 Prohibited Sidewalk Vending Locations
Section 8. 78. 120 Locations for Vending in Parks
Section 8. 78. 130 Approved Stationary Vendor Locations on Streets and in Parks;
Applications and Supplemental Rules
Section 8. 78. 140 Authority to Adopt Additional Rules and Regulations
Section 8. 78. 150 Violations; Penalties
Section 8. 78.010 Purpose
This Chapter is intended to provide increased economic opportunities for persons, offer
increased options for consumers, promote vending practices that are safe, healthful, attractive,
and avoid disruptions to the operation and enjoyment of public property, such as streets and
parks.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.020 Definitions
The following terms when used in this Chapter shall have the meaning assigned below
unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning was intended:
A. " Approved stationary vendor cart location" means a location approved for the
operation of a stationary vendor cart on a sidewalk or in a park pursuant to Section 8. 78. 130.
B. " Approved trash receptacle" means a container for trash which must be attached
to any roaming vendor cart, but may be attached or detached when serving a stationary vendor
cart.
C. " Authorized supplemental locations" means a location which is:
1. No more than 15 feet from the edge of a park pedestrian path;
2. Is flat or has a grade of no more than 2%;
3. Consists of grass, dirt, or paving; and
4. May be used without violating any park rules.
D. " Certified farmers' market" means a location operated in accordance with
Chapter 10. 5 ( commencing with section 47000) of Division 17 of the Food and Agricultural Code
and any regulations adopted pursuant to that chapter.
E. " Clear pedestrian path" means a linear-pedestrian path along a sidewalk or a
park pedestrian path which runs for the entire length of a vendor cart and for three feet in one
direction which is available for immediate, unobstructed, safe pedestrian use. The width of the
8. 78 ( l) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
clear pedestrian path is measured at a perpendicular to the edge of the sidewalk and consists of
the amount of sidewalk available for pedestrian use after reducing the width by both of the
following:
1. Any area occupied by the vendor cart, the location used by the person
operating the vendor cart, and stationary customers; and
2. Improvements or physical conditions present in the sidewalk that impede
use of the side, including without limitation signs, parking meters, trees, and uncovered tree wells.
F. Concession agreement" a contractual permit or license signed by the Mayor,
City Manager, or designee, authorizing a person to vend within a park or on other public property.
G. " Design standards" means objective and publicly available design rules in writing
which each vendor cart must satisfy and have been approved from time to time by City Council,
subject to limited and objective modification as determined by the Director of Community
Development. Design standards may be set to apply to classifications which may be based on:
1. Whether the vendor cart will be stationary or roaming;
2. Whether the vendor cart will sell food or merchandise; and
3. The location in which the vendor cart will operate.
H. " Exempted vending activities" means vending:
1. Conducted by a person authorized by the operator or manager of a swap
meet, provided that the vending occurs during the approved operating hours and boundaries of
the swap meet;
2. Conducted by a person authorized by the holder of a temporary special
permit provided that the vending occurs during the approved operating hours and boundaries of
the event approved in the permit; or
3. Conducted by a person who holds a City concession agreement, provided
that the vending is confined to the operating hours and boundaries identified in the City
concession agreement.
I. Issuing officer" means the City employee selected by the City Manager to issue
review license applications and take additional actions as provided by this Chapter, as well as the
designees of the issuing officer.
J. Park" means any improved or unimproved land that is owned by the City where
the primary use is for recreation, and is designated as a park in the City' s General Plan.
K. " Park pedestrian path" means a paved path within a park which is designed for
pedestrian use and is open to the general public.
L. Public property" means property owned by the City of Vista, any area within a
right of way dedicated to the City of Vista by easement or other means, and any other property
over which the City maintains control on behalf of itself or the public due to easements, leases,
or other arrangements.
M. " Remaining in a single operating location" means operations of a roaming
sidewalk vendor which are contained within a circular area with a fifty foot diameter, considering
only locations where the vendor was present with the vendor cart.
N. " Roaming sidewalk vendor" means a sidewalk vendor who moves from place to
place and stops only to complete a transaction.
O. " Roaming vendor cart" means a vendor cart which regularly moves and is
operated by a roaming sidewalk vendor.
P. " Sidewalk" means the paved portion of public right of way primarily designed for
pedestrian use. The term " sidewalk" excludes any area primarily designed for use by vehicles,
bicycles, the conveyance of storm water, planted with landscaping, or consisting of dirt.
Q. " Sidewalk vending license" means a license issued pursuant to Section
8. 78.050 or renewed pursuant to Section 8. 78. 060 authorizing the holder to engage in sidewalk
vending.
8. 78 ( 2) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
R. " Sidewalk vendor" or "Vendor" means a person who sells food or merchandise
from a vendor cart or from one' s person while on public property.
S. " Specified crime" means felonies or misdemeanors for sexual misconduct,
physical violence, or the distribution of, or sale of, drugs.
T. Stationary sidewalk vendor" means a sidewalk vendor who vends from a fixed
location.
U. " Stationary vendor cart" means a vendor cart which remains in a stationary
positon during operations within a day and is operated by a stationary sidewalk vendor.
V. " Swap meet" means a location operated in accordance with Article 6
commencing with Section 21660) of Chapter 9 of Division 8 of the Business and Professions
Code, and any regulations adopted pursuant to that article.
W. " Temporary special permit" means a permit issued by the City for the temporary
use of, or encroachment on, the sidewalk, park or other public area, including, but not limited to,
an encroachment permit, special event permit, or temporary event permit, for purposes including,
but not limited to, filming, parades, or outdoor concerts.
X. " Vend" means to sell, offer to sell, transfer, or offer to transfer to another for
payment, exchange or pecuniary gain.
Y. " Vendor cart" means a pushcart, stand, display, pedal- driven cart, wagon,
showcase, rack, or other nonmotorized conveyance used by a person for the purpose of selling
food or merchandise from a public sidewalk or authorized portions of a park.
Z. Vendor Cart Decal" means a decal issued pursuant to Section 8. 78.090 for
placement on a vendor cart to certify that the cart satisfied the requirements of this Chapter when
inspected.
AA. " Vendor cart permit" means the permit issued for a vendor cart certifying that the
cart satisfied the requirements of this Chapter when inspected.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.030 Prohibition on Sidewalk Vending Without a License; Exceptions
A. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a sidewalk vendor unless that
person is vending in compliance with all requirements of this Chapter, and holds a valid and
current sidewalk vending license.
B. Persons issued sidewalk vending licenses shall only vend from locations within
public streets and parks allowed by this Chapter, and from no other public property.
C. Except as provided in the following sentence, this Chapter does not apply to
exempted vending activities, as defined in Section 8. 78.020, or to vending which does not occur
on public property. Vending described in the preceding sentence must:
1. Be authorized by the person who owns or controls the property on which
the vending is occurring to the extent required by law; and
2. Comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations, permit terms, and
contractual controls pertaining to the vending.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.040 Applications for Sidewalk Vending Licenses
A. An applicant for a sidewalk vending license shall submit an application to the
issuing officer on a form approved by the issuing officer. The application shall be signed by the
vendor, accompanied by a license application fee in an amount approved by the City Council, and
shall contain the following information:
1. The name, mailing address, phone number, and email address of the
sidewalk vendor.
8. 78 ( 3) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The California seller's permit number ( California Department of Tax and
Fee Administration sales tax number), if any, issued to the sidewalk vendor.
3. Three ( 3) two- inch ( 2") by two- inch ( 2") prints of a full- face photograph,
taken not more than thirty ( 30) days prior to the date of the application, of any person who will
sell, or offer for sale, any food, service, or merchandise on any street or sidewalk within the City.
4. Whether the applicant has engaged in criminal conduct in the course of
operating as a sidewalk vendor which violates any state law, and took place within the prior twelve
months.
5. A listing of each conviction of, or plea of nolo contendre for, a specified
crime occuring within the ten years prior to the application, which shall include the date of the
arrest, and the offense for which the conviction or plea was secured.
6. To facilitate the review required by the prior paragraphs, the applicant will
provide the City with the results of a " live scan" for use by the issuing officer.
7. A fully executed release and hold harmless agreement to the benefit of the
City, in a form approved by the City' s Risk Manager.
8. If the sidewalk vendor is an agent of an individual, company, partnership,
or corporation, the name and business address of the principal
9. A certification, signed by the vendor, that to his or her knowledge and belief
the information contained in the application is accurate, complete and correct.
B. A separate application is required for each person who intends to vend from public
property, even if the person:
1. Is employed or engaged by another person or a business; or
2. Will use a roaming or stationary vending cart which another person or a
business owns.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.050 License Decisions; Issuing Licenses
A. The issuing officer shall issue a sidewalk vending license for a sidewalk vendor by
indicating approval of the application and countersigning the application if all of the following are
satisfied:
1. An accurate and truthful application has been filed without misstatements
or misrepresentations.
2. The required application fee has been paid.
3. The vendor has signed the application, inclusive of any hold harmless
agreement.
4. Evidence of payment of the tax required by Chapter 5.04 or receipt of a
business license issued pursuant to that Chapter.
5. All applicable provisions of this article for licensing a sidewalk vendor have
been or will be met.
6. Within the prior ten years, the applicant has not been convicted of a
specified crime.
7. The applicant has not engaged in criminal conduct in the course of
operating as a sidewalk vendor which violates any state law, and took place within the prior twelve
months.
B. For each approved sidewalk vending license, the City shall issue an identification
badge in the name of the person who is licensed to operate as a sidewalk vendor. The badge
shall be the property of the City, and shall include:
1. The name and image of the person authorized to operate the vendor cart;
2. The date the badge is issued and the date it expires; and
3. A unique identification number associated with the badge.
8. 78 ( 4) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
C. If an application is denied, the basis for the denial shall be mailed or delivered in
writing to the applicant setting forth the reasons for the denial. If the denial is not appealed within
14 days as provided in Section 8. 78.080, the determination of denial shall become final and
conclusive.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.060 License Term; Renewal
A. Each sidewalk vending license shall terminate effective at 12: 00 a. m. on July 1
following the issuance of the license.
B. An application to renew a license and a renewal fee set by the City Council shall
be submitted to the issuing officer at least 30 days prior to its expiration of a license, and shall
require a confirmation of the information or an update of the information provided pursuant to
Section 8. 78.040.
C. A renewal shall be issued or denied based on the criteria set forth in Section
8. 78.050.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.070 Revocation or Suspension of Licenses
A. Any license or permit may be revoked or suspended by the issuing officer for any
of the following causes:
1. Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the application for the license or
permit.
2. Upon the issuance of repeated administrative citations as allowed by
Government Code section 51039(a).
3. Criminal conduct in the course of operating as a sidewalk vendor which
violates any state law within the prior twelve months.
4. The conviction of a specified crime within the prior ten years.
B. Notice of the proposed action to revoke or suspend a sidewalk vendor license shall
be provided to the licensed sidewalk vendor in writing and shall set forth the nature of the action
and reasons for it. The licensee shall be advised that the decision will take effect if it is not
appealed within 14 days as provided in Section 8. 78.080, at which time it shall become final and
conclusive.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78.080 Appeals
Any person subject to an action to deny an application or to revoke or suspend a license
or permit may appeal to the City Manager or his or her designee by filing a written request for an
appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen ( 14) days after notice of the action complained of has
been mailed to such person' s last known address. The request for an appeal shall include a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The City Manager or designee
shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of the hearing. At the option
of the City Manager, the City Manager may limit the appeal hearing to written submissions.
Following the appeal hearing, the City Manager or designee shall prepare a written decision which
set forth the reasons for the decision. The decision and order of City Manager or designee on
such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
8. 78 ( 5) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8. 78.090 Vendor Cart Permits; Renewals
A. It shall be unlawful for any person to vend from a vendor cart located on public
property unless a current and valid vendor cart permit has been issued for the vendor cart, and a
vendor cart decal evidencing the permit is affixed to the vendor cart.
B. An applicant for a vendor cart permit shall submit an application to the issuing
officer on a form approved by the issuing officer. The application shall be signed by the cart
owner, accompanied by a license application fee in an amount approved by the City Council, and
shall contain the following information and establish the following facts:
1. The name, mailing address, phone number, and email address of the
owner of the vendor cart.
2. Whether the vendor cart will be a roaming vendor cart or a stationary
vendor cart.
3. A fully executed release and hold harmless agreement to the benefit of the
City, in a form approved by the City' s Risk Manager, signed by the owner of the vendor cart.
4. Proof of liability commercial liability insurance of not less than $ 1, 000, 000
which names the City as an additional insured, conforming to the City' s standard insurance
coverage requirements.
5. A disclosure if food will be sold from the vendor cart, and if so, the way in
which food will be stored, refrigerated, prepared, cooked, or assembled at the vendor cart.
6. A valid copy of all necessary permits required by State or local health
authorities required for the contemplated food service and preparation associated with the vendor
cart, including evidence of having satisfactorily passed any required inspections.
7. A certification, signed by the applicant, that to his or her knowledge and
belief the information contained in the application is accurate, complete and correct.
C. To obtain a vendor cart permit for a vendor cart initially or after a permit has
expired, an applicant shall arrange for a physical inspection of the vendor cart by:
1. Scheduling an appointment with the licensing officer to occur at the Vista
City Hall or such other location as may be selected by the licensing officer; and
2. Presenting the licensing officer with a City-issued receipt evidencing
payment of the permit application fee in an amount set by the City Council.
D. The issuing officer shall approve a vendor cart permit if all of the following are
satisfied:
1. An accurate and truthful application has been filed without misstatements
or misrepresentations.
2. The required application fee has been paid.
3. The vendor cart owner has signed the application, inclusive of any hold
harmless agreement.
4. All applicable provisions of this article for licensing a sidewalk vendor have
been or will be met, as set forth in paragraph B, including the proof of commercial liability
insurance.
5. The applicant has demonstrated compliance with all design standards
applicable to the vendor cart, as follows:
a. Wheels
i. All carts must have operating wheels.
ii. Motorized vehicles are not allowed for placement or
movement of the carts.
b. Canopies
i. Each pushcart or kiosk must have either an umbrella
mounted on a single pole, or a canopy mounted on a maximum of four supports. Alternate roof
designs may be accepted, subject to specific review and approval.
8. 78 ( 6) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
ii. All supports must be mounted on the pushcart and shall not
extend beyond the outside dimensions of the pushcart body. The lowest edge of any canopy or
umbrella shall not be less than seven feet above the sidewalk.
iii. Materials such as Panaflex, plastic, or vinyl are not
permitted.
C. Lighting
i. Carts and kiosks that anticipate operating into the evening
may utilize battery-powered, low-voltage lighting systems for display lighting and accents.
ii. Display lighting should be directed at the merchandise only
and not be distracting to passing pedestrians or motorists.
iii. Small strings of accent lights or fiber optic strands may be
used as accent lighting with specific review and approval.
iv. No internally illuminated umbrellas or canopies will be
allowed.
d. Materials. All materials must be suitable for extended outdoor use
and comply with all applicable health and safety standards.
E. Upon approving a vendor cart permit, the licensing officer shall issue the permit in
the form of a vendor cart decal, and attach the decal to a conspicuous place on the vendor cart.
F. The vendor cart permit and decal shall include such information as the licensing
officer determines appropriate, and may include the date of issuance, the date the decal expires,
and an identification number.
G. Each vendor cart permit shall terminate effective at 12: 00 a.m. on July 1 following
the issuance of the permit.
H. It is unlawful for a person to alter a decal. To avoid misuse of decals, no current
decal shall be removed from a vendor cart unless it is immediately rendered unusable and
destroyed.
I. Notice of the proposed action shall be provided to the applicant in writing. The
licensee shall be advised that the decision will take effect if it is not appealed within 14 days as
provided in Section 8. 78.080, at which time it shall become final and conclusive.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 100 General Operating Rules for Sidewalk Vendors
A. A person operating as a sidewalk vendor shall satisfy each of the following
requirements:
1. Conspicuously display the following and present for direct inspection when
requested by a City employee or a member of the Sheriff's department:
a. The vendor's current sidewalk vendor's license.
b. A receipt for payment of any tax owed pursuant to Chapter 5. 04 or
a valid and current business license pursuant to Chapter 5. 04.
2. Maintain for inspection at all times, and present on request of a City
employee or a member of the Sheriff's department, a copy of:
a. A valid California Department of Tax and Fee Administration seller's
permit; and
b. Any additional licenses from other state or local agencies to the
extent required by law.
3. When vending from a vendor cart, use only a vendor cart displaying a
current vendor cart decal and which continues to satisfy all requirements of this Chapter, including
all design standards.
4. Locate a vendor cart, position himself or herself, and control or direct
customers so that clear pedestrian access is maintained which meets or exceeds three feet.
8. 78 ( 7) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Use of any vendor cart, and conduct all operations, to satisfy the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ( Public Law 101- 336) and other disability access
standards, including making adjustments so that persons encountering any obstructions are
promptly accommodated so they have passage over sidewalks or paved pedestrian paths
sufficient to satisfy applicable law.
6. Refrain from displaying any items for sale on the ground, a blanket, or table.
7. When directed by authorized personnel, immediately relocate operations
and/ or a vendor cart to avoid an immediate danger to the safety of persons or property.
Authorized personnel" include City code enforcement officers, emergency response officers, or
police officers. If the vendor cart is not promptly removed following such order, the cart may be
relocated or temporarily detained by such officer.
8. When a vendor cart is not in active use, it must be removed from public
property and stored in a location in compliance with all applicable laws.
9. When operating a vendor cart used to vend food:
a. Provide an approved trash receptacle capable of accommodating
all refuse generated by their vending activity;
b. Make the approved trash receptacle available for use by customers
who wish to dispose of trash;
C. Empty the trash receptacle once it is full without depositing the trash
in existing trash receptacles on sidewalks and other public space; and
d. In the case of a stationary street vendor, maintain the vending site
and 20 foot radius of the operating space free of all refuse of any kind generated from the
operation of their business.
10. At all times, a sidewalk vendor operating a stationary vendor cart shall
maintain a copy of the permit identifying the approved stationary vendor location assigned to the
stationary vendor cart. When requested, the sidewalk vendor shall present a copy of the permit
authorizing operations in that location to any City employee or member of the Sheriff's
department.
11. If the vendor is operating as a stationary sidewalk vendor which sells food,
the vendor must maintain access to readily available toilet and handwashing facility access within
two hundred feet ( 200') travel distance of the vendor's approved location for operation as a
stationary sidewalk vendor.
12. Vending occurring in a park shall be permitted during the hours the park is
open to the public, subject to these additional limitations:
a. The sidewalk vendor shall abide by all park rules;
b. Vending shall not commence earlier than 9 a. m.;
C. Vending must conclude by sunset; and
d. Any vendor cart must be removed from the park within fifteen
minutes of following sunset, or the time the park closes, whichever is earlier.
13. Operations of a stationary sidewalk vendor on a public sidewalk shall only
occur during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12: 00 a. m. of the following day.
14. Operations of a roaming sidewalk vendor shall only occur during the hours
of 7:00 a. m. and 12: 00 a. m. of the following day, except in residential zones, where operations
shall occur only during the hours of 8:00 a. m. and sunset.
B. A person operating as a sidewalk vendor is prohibited from all of the following:
1. Transacting business with persons while they are inside motor vehicles.
2. Leaving a vendor cart unattended on any public property.
3. Chaining or fastening a vendor cart to any pole, sign, tree or other object
located on public property, or leaving the vendor cart unattended on any public property.
4. Connecting a vendor cart to an external source of power, water or any other
utilities while located on public property.
8. 78 ( 8) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
5. With the exception of one trash receptacle in the case of a stationary
vending cart, placing any free-standing signs, tables, chairs, fences, shade structures, or other
furniture on, under, or near the site of the operation of the vending cart.
6. Allowing any item relating to the operation of the vending business to lean
against or hang from any building or other structure lawfully placed on public property.
7. Using any amplified or non- amplified sound making devices.
8. Remaining in a single operating location for more than thirty minutes,
unless the sidewalk vendor is a stationary sidewalk vendor.
9. Burning wood or barbeque briquettes.
10. No sidewalk vendor shall sell any alcohol- related beverage; tobacco or
electronic vaping products; cannabis products; weapons, including knives, guns, or explosive
devices; pharmaceuticals; or such other products identified in a list adopted by resolution or
ordinance of the City Council as prohibited for sidewalk vending based on public health safety, or
welfare concerns.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 110 Prohibited Sidewalk Vending Locations
A. Sidewalk vendors operating within a street or right of way shall adhere to the
following rules governing the location for sidewalk vending:
1. No vendor shall use the median strip of a divided roadway.
2. A roaming sidewalk vendor shall not stop to transact business on a
sidewalk with a width of less than 5 feet.
3. No vendor shall locate their operation in such a way that would restrict the
ingress to, or egress from, the adjoining property, including emergency access.
4. It is unlawful for a person to engage in sidewalk vending within 100 feet of
the boundaries of a certified farmers' market, a swap meet, or a temporary special event during
the approved operating hours of that farmers market, swap meet, or special event.
5. No sidewalk vendor shall stop or locate to transact business within:
a. 400 feet of a freeway entrance or exit.
b. 100 feet of a primary or secondary public or private school on any
school day beginning one hour before the start of school and one hour following the ending of
school.
C. 50 feet of the driveway entrance to a police or fire station.
d. 5 feet of a marked or unmarked crosswalk.
e. 5 feet of the curb return of an unmarked crosswalk.
f. 5 feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box or other emergency facility.
g. 5 feet ahead and 45 feet to the rear of a sign designating a bus stop.
h. 10 feet of a transit shelter, bus bench, or bus stop zone.
i. 5 feet of a driveway or driveway apron.
j. 10 feet of an outdoor dining or patio dining area.
k. 18 inches from the edge of a curb.
B. In addition to the rules set forth in paragraph A, a stationary sidewalk vendor
operating from a sidewalk, and any approved stationary vendor location, shall comply with the
following rules:
1. Except as provided in subparagraph 7 below, no person shall operate a
stationary vendor cart except when located in an approved stationary vendor cart location
authorized pursuant to Section 8. 78. 130.
2. No person shall let a stationary vendor cart stand on any location on public
property for a period of more than five minutes other than an approved stationary vendor cart
location.
8. 78 ( 9) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Stationary sidewalk vendors are prohibited in areas that are zoned
exclusively residential.
4. A stationary vendor cart shall not be operated from a sidewalk, nor shall an
approved stationary cart location be approved for a sidewalk, unless the sidewalk has a width of
at least ten feet.
5. If a stationary sidewalk vendor will sell food, the vendor must operate from
a vending location which is within two hundred feet (200') travel distance of an approved and
readily available toilet and handwashing facility to ensure that restroom facilities are available to
the vendor permit holder and any of its employees.
6. An approved stationary vendor cart location shall not be approved within
200 feet of another approved stationary vendor cart location.
7. Where there are multiple requests for the same location and if the location
meets the criteria for establishment, the sidewalk vending location will be assigned to the
applicant who has a preference as a result from vending from the specific location continuously
for the last 12 months or, where the vending location is not licensed and no preference exists, it
will be assigned on a first come, first served basis.
8. Stationary vendors approved for a location within the boundaries of a
temporary special permit or 100 feet thereof, must relocate to a location approved by the licensing
officer unless:
a. The vendor is authorized to participate in the event by the event
operator; or
b. The requirement for relocation is waived in writing by the issuing
officer.
9. Stationary vendors are obligated to relocate to a location approved by the
issuing officer when work will occur on any public property which is located within 200 feet of the
location approved for the street vendor, unless such relocation is waived in writing by the issuing
officer.
10. Stationary vendors are obligated to relocate to a location approved by the
issuing officer when the vendor is located within 50 feet of the boundaries of a construction site
located on private property, unless such relocation is waived in writing by the issuing officer.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 120 Locations for Vending in Parks
Sidewalk vendors who intend to or operate within a park shall adhere to all rules set forth
in Section 8. 78. 110 except:
1. The term sidewalk when used in Section 8. 78. 110 shall refer to a park pedestrian
path for purposes of this Section;
2. Vending may also occur in authorized supplemental locations, as defined in
Section 8. 78.020; and
3. Stationary sidewalk vendors shall be prohibited, altogether, in all City parks where
the City has an existing agreement or policy for exclusive food and/ or merchandise sales.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 130 Approved Stationary Vendor Locations on Streets and in Parks;
Applications and Supplemental Rules
A. To be authorized for an approved stationary vendor cart location, the owner of the
stationary vendor cart shall submit an application to the licensing officer using a form prepared by
the issuing officer, and make payment of an application fee in the amount set by the City Council.
8. 78 ( 10) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. If the requested location satisfies the requirements of Sections 8. 78. 110 and
8. 78. 120, the licensing officer shall issue a permit identifying an approved stationary vendor cart
location from which the applicant' s stationary vendor cart may operate.
C. Each permit shall terminate at 12: 00 a. m. on July 1 following the issuance of the
permit.
D. Notice of the proposed action on the application shall be provided to the applicant
in writing and shall set forth the nature of the action and, in the event of a denial, the reasons for
it. The applicant shall be advised that the decision will take effect if it is not appealed within 14
days as provided in Section 8. 78.080, at which time it shall become final and conclusive.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 140 Authority to Adopt Additional Rules and Regulations
To assist in the implementation of this Chapter, the City Council may, by resolution, adopt
additional objective rules and regulations allowed under Section 51038(c) of the Government
Code which address the subject matter of this Chapter.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
Section 8. 78. 150 Violations; Penalties
A. When a person authorized to issue an administrative citation pursuant to Chapter
1. 13 becomes aware that a violation of this Chapter has occurred, that person may issue an
administrative citation pursuant to Chapter 1. 13 for the violation without first providing a notice of
violation. The administrative citation shall be accompanied by the " ability to pay" notice required
by Section 51039(f) of the Government Code.
B. When the citation is issued to a sidewalk vendor holding a current and valid license
for violations of this Chapter, the fines shall be set at the maximum amounts set forth in Section
51039(a)( 1) of the Government Code, subject to adjustment as provided in paragraph E, below.
C. When the violation is issued to a person operating as a sidewalk vendor without a
license, the fines shall be set at the maximum amounts set forth in section 51039(a)( 3), subject
to adjustment as provided in paragraph E, below.
D. Except as modified in this section, the procedures applicable to administrative
citations, including without limitation the issuance, processing, review and appeal of
administrative citations, shall be those contained in Chapter 1. 13.
E. The amount of fines for an administrative citation shall be subject to adjustment or
may be limited in exchange for the performance of community service as provided in Section
51039(f) of the Government Code, but only if:
1. Before the administrative citation becomes final pursuant to 1. 13. 090 the
officer who issued the citation determines that he has been presented with proof justifying the
adjustment and agrees to make such an adjustment; or
2. Before the administrative citation becomes final pursuant to 1. 13. 090 the
cited party files an appeal and thereafter the officer reviewing the appeal adjusts the amount of
the fine.
Ord. No. 2019- 3, Enacted, 01/ 22/ 19)
8. 78 ( 11) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 04
Distribution of Handbills
Sections:
9.04.010 Purpose and Intent
9.04.020 Distribution of Advertising Materials
9.04.030 Distribution of Written or Printed Materials to Unwilling Recipients
9.04.040 Littering Forbidden
9.04.050 Methods of Distribution
9.04.060 Exceptions
Section 9.04.010 Purpose and Intent
The City Council finds, determines and declares:
A. That the practice of distributing, casting, throwing and otherwise placing
commercial advertising materials upon private property in the city creates widespread litter which
is unsightly, unhealthy and difficult to remove.
B. That the accumulation of printed or written materials on real property during an
absence inadvertently advertises such absence and thereby increases the probability of criminal
activity on such property.
C. That the distribution of noncommercial newspapers, magazines, handbills, and
other noncommercial materials to which citizens have objected, and all commercial materials
delivered without prior consent, interferes with rights of privacy.
D. That such practices are injurious and inimical to the public health, safety and
welfare of residents of this city and that such problems are becoming increasingly direct and
substantial.
E. That such practices are, therefore, declared to be a public nuisance.
F. That such practices should be prohibited to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of this city.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2( a); Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
Section 9.04.020 Distribution of Advertising Materials
It is unlawful to distribute, pass out, give away, circulate, or deliver any printed or written
handbill, circular, or advertising literature offering to sell or buy any goods, wares, merchandise or
commercial or professional services or offering to buy, sell or list any real property:
A. In any public place within the city.
B. Into or upon any motor vehicle within the city.
C. In the yard or grounds or on the doorstep, porch, or vestibule of any residence,
dwelling, or apartment within the city.
D. Upon any vacant lot or other private property within the city; without first having
obtained permission of the owner, adult occupant, or other person in control thereof.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2b; Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
Section 9. 04.030 Distribution of Written or Printed Materials to Unwilling
Recipients
It is unlawful to distribute, pass out, give away, circulate, or deliver any printed or written
materials of any kind whatsoever within the city if the intended recipient thereof, or the owner,
9. 04 ( l) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
occupant, or resident of any property where such materials are left or intended to be left, has
given notice to the distributor or disseminator of such materials that the recipient or intended
recipient does not wish to receive any such materials. Such notice may be given to a distributor
or disseminator of printed or written materials by an owner, occupant or person in control of real
property by one or more of the following means:
A. By posting said property in a conspicuous position new the entrance thereof with
a sign at least 12 square inches in area stating " No Advertisements," or " No Handbills" or other
words of similar import, indicating in any manner that such materials shall not be left on the
property.
B. By written communication to the distributor or disseminator of such materials.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2c; Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
Section 9. 04.040 Littering Forbidden
It is unlawful to throw, cast, or scatter any paper or trash of any kind whatsoever in or
onto any public place, in or upon any automobile, vehicle, or conveyance, or into or on the yard
or grounds or on the doorstep, porch, or vestibule of any residence, apartment, or dwelling, or
upon any lot within the city.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2d; Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
Section 9. 04.050 Methods of Distribution
Any paper or printed or written materials which may be distributed, passed out, given
away, circulated or delivered in the city, pursuant to law, shall be either:
A. Placed in the hand of the intended recipient.
B. Bound, folded, or weighted in such a manner that the materials cannot be blown
away, scattered, or fragmented by the action of the elements or normal pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
C. Affixed to the premises for which they are intended by being tied to or slipped
over a doorknob or other protrusion.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2e; Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
Section 9. 04.060 Exceptions
The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
A. The distribution of folded newspapers of general circulation, as the same are
defined in Section 6000 of the Government Code of the state of California.
B. The distribution of mail by the United States Government, or to any lien,
foreclosure, court, or governmental notices or process.
Prior Code 19- 8. 2 ( f) ; Ord. No. 70- 39, Enacted 11/ 16/ 70; Ord. No. 75- 17, Amended 4/ 28/ 75)
9. 04 ( 2) Vista 3/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 06
Garage and Yard Sales
Sections:
9.06.010 Definitions
9.06.020 Regulation
9.06.030 Hours When Permitted; Length of Sale; Frequency
9.06.040 Property Offered for Sale or Display
9.06.050 Location of Display; Manner
9.06.060 Announcements of Sale
9.06.070 Inspection of Site and Property
9.06.080 Violations as a Public Offense; Penalty
Section 9.06.010 Definitions
A. " Code Compliance Officer" shall mean the Code Compliance Officer of the City
of Vista, and such other persons as may from time to time be designated and authorized to act
on behalf of the Code Compliance Officer, and any law enforcement officer.
B. " Garage Sale," " Yard Sale" shall mean the activity of offering for sale any
property, other than real property, by means of announcing or advertising a " garage," " yard,"
moving," " estate," "rummage," or "tag" sale, all of which are synonymous, or by any other means
intended to communicate that the sale is an occasional, casual, or non- business related event
offering the sale of personal property. " Garage Sale" or "Yard Sale" shall not include any of the
following:
1. Any event which constitutes a sales activity conducted by a business
possessing a valid business license issued by the City of Vista.
2. Any event conducted at a public school.
3. Any event conducted by a non- profit organization.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/93; Ord. No. 94- 1, Amended, 01/ 25/ 94)
Section 9.06.020 Regulation
No person shall advertise, announce, conduct, operate or sponsor a garage sale or yard
sale within the City of Vista, except in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
Section 9.06.030 Hours When Permitted; Length of Sale; Frequency
A. No person shall conduct or operate, or permit the conduct or operation, of any
garage or yard sale except between the hours of 8: 00 a.m. and 6:00 p. m.
B. No garage sale or yard sale shall be conducted or operated on any one site for a
period longer than three consecutive days.
C. No more than four garage or yard sales may be conducted in any calendar year
at any individual site or location. For purposes of this section, " Site" or " Location" means any
single- family residence, any individual building containing multi- family residences, any premises
within a commercial or industrial zone of the city, or any vacant parcel.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
9. 06 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 06.040 Property Offered for Sale or Display
No person shall conduct or operate a garage or yard sale at which personal property is
offered for sale or display that is not the personal property of the person conducting or operating
the garage or yard sale, or the personal property of another person who is known by the person
conducting or operating the sale to be the owner of such property and who has given express
consent for the display and sale of such property.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
Section 9. 06.050 Location of Display; Manner
A. No person operating or conducting any garage or yard sale shall display or
permit the display of any property for sale, or place or locate any property, within five feet of the
improved portion of any public right of way. The improved portion of a public right of way includes
sidewalks, pathways, curbs, paving, bikeways, and any other portions of the right of way used
or traveled by the public.
B. No person operating or conducting any garage or yard sale shall restrict, hinder,
interfere with, or in any way obstruct the safe and reasonable passage of the public along any
public right of way, or the right of any person to have free ingress and egress to any portion of
the property on which the sale is conducted.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
Section 9. 06.060 Announcements of Sale
No person shall place, post, display or circulate any sign, bulletin, announcement, or
other material advertising any garage or yard sale except in accordance with the following
regulations.
A. Any such sign, bulletin, announcement, or other material advertising any garage
or yard sale shall not exceed four square feet in area.
B. No sign, bulletin, announcement, or other material announcing any garage or
yard sale shall be placed, posted, or circulated except on the day or days of the sale and two
days preceding the sale, and all such signs, bulletins, announcements, or other material shall be
removed by 8: 00 a.m. of the day following such sale.
C. No sign, bulletin, announcement, or other material announcing any garage or
yard sale, or providing direction to its location, shall be placed upon any public fixture within a
public right of way, including without limitation any utility pole, traffic sign or signal, street light
pole, bus or transit sign, bench or shelter, or any traffic control device or marker. Signs
announcing the garage or yard sale are permitted at the site of the sale.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
Section 9. 06.070 Inspection of Site and Property
During all reasonable hours and in any reasonable manner, the Code Compliance Officer,
or any law enforcement officer, may inspect the site at which a garage or yard sale is being
advertised, or the personal property which may be displayed or offered for sale, for the purpose
of assuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
Section 9. 06.080 Violations as a Public Offense; Penalty
A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be either a misdemeanor or an
infraction and either subject to prosecution as a public offense or redressed by civil action. If
9. 06 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
prosecuted as a public offense, a violation shall be punishable in the manner provided by
chapter 1. 16 of this code. The provisions of this chapter are enforceable under Chapter 1. 12.
Under chapter 1. 12, the City Manager, or his designee, is authorized to issue citations for
violations of this code. Every day any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
Ord. No. 93- 23, Enacted, 10/ 26/ 93)
9. 06 ( 3) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 08
Offenses by or Against Minors
Sections:
9.08.010 Curfew - Persons under 18 Years of Age
9.08.030 Leaving Children under Five Years of Age Unattended
Section 9.08.010 Curfew - Persons under 18 Years of Age
A. Purpose and Intent. The City Council of Vista is concerned with the level of
juvenile violence, juvenile gang activity, and juvenile crime in the City of Vista. The crimes being
committed by juveniles include serious offenses such as murder, drive- by shootings, drug- related
crimes and other gang- related activities. Juveniles are particularly susceptible by their lack of
maturity and experience to participate in unlawful and gang- related activities and to be victims of
older perpetrators of crimes. Recent local statistics regarding juvenile crime and victimization
indicate that enforcement of a curfew for juveniles decreases the percentage of juvenile
victimization and increases the number of arrests for violent crimes during curfew hours.
Therefore, having an enforceable juvenile curfew ordinance is critical to preserving the public
health, safety and welfare.
B. Definitions. For purposes of this section the following terms shall be defined as
follows:
1. Curfew Hours" means the period from 11: 00 p. m. any evening of the
week, until 5: 00 a. m. the following day.
2. Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire,
natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
serious bodily injury or loss of life.
3. Establishment" means any privately owned place of business operated
for a profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
4. Guardian" means a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor, or public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the court.
5. Minor" means any person under 18 years of age.
6. Parent" means a person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent
of another person.
7. Public Place" means any place to which the public or a substantial
group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and
shops.
8. Responsible Adult" means a person at least 18 years of age, authorized
by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
9. Serious Bodily Injury" means bodily injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
C. Curfew Restrictions. It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the City of Vista during curfew hours.
D. Parental Control. It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor knowingly to
permit, or by insufficient control to allow the minor to be present in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the City of Vista during curfew hours.
9. 08 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
E. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection C or D that the minor was:
1. Accompanied by the minor' s parent or guardian, or by a responsible
adult.
2. On an errand at the direction of the minor' s parent or guardian, or the
responsible adult, without any detour or stop.
3. In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
4. Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from an
employment activity, without any detour or stop.
5. Involved in an emergency.
6. On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence.
7. Attending an official school, religious, or recreational activity supervised
by one or more adults and sponsored by the City of Vista, a civic organization, or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by one or
more adults and sponsored by the City of Vista, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor.
8. Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution.
9. Emancipated pursuant to law.
F. Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a law enforcement
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place or on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours. The law enforcement officer shall not issue
a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any responses and other circumstances, no defense
under Subsection E is present or applicable.
G. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
H. Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Prior Code 17- 1; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 98- 8,
Amended, 10/ 13/ 1998)
Section 9. 08.020 Leaving Children under Five Years of Age Unattended.
No person shall willfully leave or permit any child less than five years of age to be left
unattended under such circumstances that it would reasonably appear that such child might be
injured or suffer some impairment to its health or bodily comfort.
Prior Code 17- 3; Ord. No. 63- 1, Adopted 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63)
9. 08 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 10
Public Decency
Section:
9. 10.010 Public Decency
A. It is unlawful for a person, in a public place, to knowingly or intentionally:
1. Engage in sexual intercourse.
2. Appear in a state of nudity.
B. " Nudity" means the showing of the human male or female genitalia, pubic hair
or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female breast with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple or areola; the exposure of any device,
costume, or covering which gives the appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal
cleft, perineum anal region, or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a
cover over the nipples and/ or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives
the realistic appearance of nipples and/ or areola.
C. " Public Place" includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the general
public, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public,
including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs, theaters, dance halls,
banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific members, restricted to adults or to
patrons invited to attend, whether or not an admission charge is levied.
D. The prohibition against public nudity set forth in this section, shall not apply to:
1. Any child under ten years of age.
2. Any mother breast feeding a child.
E. This ordinance may be enforced by criminal complaint, criminal citation,
injunction, or through any other legal means. However, in no case shall the criminal
sanctions of this ordinance be applied to an activity when the criminal sanctions for that
activity are set exclusively by the California Penal Code.
Ord. No. 2001- 9, Enacted, 05/ 22/ 01)
9. 10 ( 1) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 12
Adult-Oriented Businesses
Sections:
Article I Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permits and Operating Regulations
9. 12.010 Legislative Purpose
9. 12.020 Definitions
9. 12.030 Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required
9. 12.040 Investigation and Action on Application for Adult-Oriented Regulatory Permit
9. 12.050 Adult-Oriented Business Development and Performance Standards
9. 12.060 Employment of and Services Rendered to Persons Under the Age of 18
Years Prohibited; 21 if Liquor is Served
9. 12.070 Inspections
9. 12.080 Transfer of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit
9. 12.090 Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit
9. 12. 100 Appeal Procedures
Article 2 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
9. 12. 110 Purpose
9. 12. 120 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
9. 12. 130 Investigation and Action on Application for Adult-Oriented Business
Performer License
9. 12. 140 Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
9. 12. 150 Appeal of Denial or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
9. 12. 160 Display of License and Identification Cards
9. 12. 170 Register and License Number of Employees
9. 12. 180 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License Non- Transferable
9. 12. 190 Time Limit for Filing Application for Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
Article 3 Enforcement
9. 12.200 Violations
Article 4 Miscellaneous Provisions
9. 12.210 Regulations Non- Exclusive
9. 12.220 Severability
Article I Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permits and Operating Regulations
Section 9. 12. 010 Legislative Purpose
It is the purpose and intent of this article to regulate the operations of adult businesses,
which have judicially recognized adverse secondary effects on the community, including, but not
limited to, increases in crime in the vicinity of adult businesses; decreases in property values in
the vicinity of adult businesses; increases in vacancies in residential and commercial areas in
the vicinity of adult businesses; interference with residential property owners' enjoyment of their
properties when such properties are located in the vicinity of adult businesses as a result of
increases in crime, litter, noise, and vandalism; and the deterioration of neighborhoods. Special
regulation of these businesses is necessary to prevent these adverse secondary effects and the
blighting or degradation of the neighborhoods in the vicinity of adult businesses while at the
same time protecting the First Amendment rights of those individuals who desire to own,
operate or patronize those certain adult-oriented businesses which have such First Amendment
protection.
9. 12 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 19- 26; Ord. No. 73-22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Amended, 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord.
No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 020 Definitions
In addition to any other definitions contained in the Municipal Code, all words and
phrases included in this chapter shall have the meanings assigned to those words and phrases
by Section 18. 84.020 of the Vista Development Code, unless it is clearly apparent from the
context that another meaning is intended.
Prior Code 19- 27, Ord. No. 73- 22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Amended 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No.
2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 030 Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required
All adult-oriented businesses are subject to the adult-oriented business regulatory permit
requirements of this chapter as well as all other applicable ordinances of the City and laws of
the state of California.
A. It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, engage in, conduct, or
carry on any adult- oriented business within the City of Vista unless the person first obtains, and
continues to maintain in full force and effect, an adult-oriented business regulatory permit as
herein required. Any occurrence of the " establishment of an adult- oriented business"- as
defined in Section 18. 84.020 of Chapter 18. 84 of the Vista Development Code shall require a
new application for an adult-oriented business regulatory permit. The adult-oriented business
regulatory permit shall be subject to the development and operational standards of this chapter
and the underlying zone where the facility is located.
B. The City' s Director of Community Development (" Director") or his/ her designee
shall act upon any adult- oriented business regulatory permits in accordance with these
regulations.
C. Permit applicants shall file a written, signed and verified application on a form
provided by the Planning Division. Such application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
1. If the permit applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his or her
legal name, including any aliases, and address, and shall submit satisfactory written proof that
he or she is at least 18 years of age.
2. If the permit applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership' s complete name, address, the names of all partners, and whether the partnership is
general or limited; and shall attach a copy of the partnership agreement, if any.
3. If the permit applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide its
complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing
under the laws of the state of California, the names and capacities of all officers and directors,
the name of the registered corporate agent, and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
4. A signed and verified statement that neither the permit applicant ( if an
individual) nor any individual partner, officer, or director of applicant ( if applicant is a partnership
or corporation) has not pled guilty or nolo contendere or been convicted of an offense classified
by this or any other state as a sex or sex- related offense, including crimes involving moral
turpitude, prostitution, or obscenity, where:
a. Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement of conviction to the date of application, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is a misdemeanor; or
9. 12 (2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
b. Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement of conviction to the date of application, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is a felony; or
C. Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction to the date of application,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanors or combination of
misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24- month period.
5. The permit applicant shall sign the application. All persons who sign the
application must also provide names, aliases, addresses, and date of birth.
6. If the permit applicant intends to operate the adult-oriented business
under a name other than that of the permit applicant, the permit applicant shall file the fictitious
name of the adult- oriented business and show proof of registration of the fictitious name.
7. A description of the type of adult-oriented business for which the permit is
requested and the proposed address where the adult-oriented business will operate, plus the
names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the adult-oriented business site.
8. The address to which notice of action on the application is to be mailed.
9. A sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the premises,
including a statement of the total floor area occupied by the adult-oriented business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be oriented to the north or some other
designated street or object and drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions
of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
10. A diagram of the off-street parking areas and entries to the premises of
the adult-oriented business, also showing the location of the lighting system required by this
chapter.
D. The completed application shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application
fee. The amount of such fees shall be set by the City Council.
E. The completeness of an application for an adult-oriented business regulatory
permit shall be determined by the Director within five City business days of its submittal. If the
Director determines that the permit application is incomplete, the Director shall immediately
notify in writing the permit applicant of such fact and the reasons therefore, including any
additional information necessary to render the application complete. Such writing shall be
deposited in the U. S. mail, postage prepaid, immediately upon determination that the application
is incomplete. Within five City business days following the receipt of an amended application or
supplemental information, the Director shall again determine whether the application is
complete in accordance with the provisions set forth above. Evaluation and notification shall
occur as provided herein until such time as the application is found to be complete.
F. The fact that a permit applicant possesses other types of State or City licenses
does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of obtaining an adult- oriented business
regulatory permit.
Prior Codes 19- 28 and 19- 29; Ord. 73- 22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Amended 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency
Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 040 Investigation and Action on Application for Adult-Oriented Business
Regulatory Permit
A. Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application and
permit fees, the Director shall immediately write or stamp the application " Received" and, in
conjunction with City staff, shall promptly investigate the information contained in the application
to determine whether an adult-oriented business regulatory permit shall be granted.
Investigation shall not be grounds for the City to unilaterally delay in reviewing a completed
9. 12 (3) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
application, nor is it grounds to extend the time period to conduct a hearing pursuant to this
section.
B. Within 28 days of receipt of the completed application, the investigation shall be
completed and the Director shall notice and conduct a public hearing with notice of such hearing
to be made pursuant to California Government Code Sections 65091 and 65905.
C. In reaching a decision on the application, the Director shall not be bound by the
formal rules of evidence in the California Evidence Code.
D. The Director shall render a written decision on the application for an adultoriented
business regulatory permit within two City business days of the public hearing required
by this section. The failure of the Director to render any decision within the time frames
established in any part of this section shall be deemed to constitute an approval subject to
compliance with all the operational standards of Chapter 9. 12 and the zoning, Iocational, and
minimum proximity requirements of Section 18. 84.030. Any decision of the Director respect to
an application, whether such decision is in writing or occurs by operation of law, shall be subject
to appeal to the City Council, pursuant to Section 9. 12. 100. The decision of the Director shall
be hand delivered or mailed to the applicant at the address provided in the application, and shall
be provided in accordance with the requirements of this code.
E. Notwithstanding any provisions in this section regarding the occurrence of any
action within a specified period of time, the applicant may request additional time beyond that
provided for in this section or may request a continuance regarding any decision or
consideration by the City of the pending application. Extensions of time sought by applicants
shall not be considered delay on the part of the City or constitute failure by the City to provide
for prompt decisions on applications.
F. The Director shall grant or deny the application in accordance with the provisions
of this section, and so notify the applicant as follows:
1. The Director shall write or stamp " Granted" or " Denied" on the application
and date and sign such notation.
2. If the application is denied, the Director shall attach to the application a
statement of the reasons for the denial.
3. If the application is granted, the Director shall attach to the application an
adult- oriented business regulatory permit.
G. The Director shall grant the application and issue the adult-oriented business
regulatory permit upon findings that the proposed business meets, or will meet, all of the
development and operational standards and requirements of this chapter, unless the application
is denied based upon one or more of the criteria set forth in Subsection I of this section.
H. If the Director grants the application, the applicant may begin operating the adultoriented
business for which the permit was sought, subject to strict compliance with the
development and operational standards and requirements of this chapter. The permit holder
shall post the permit conspicuously in the premises of the adult-oriented business.
I. The Director shall deny the application if the applicant fails to establish that any
of the following criteria have been met:
1. The adult- oriented business complies with the City' s zoning requirements
as to its underlying zoning designation and other Iocational requirements of Section 18. 84. 30.
2. The adult-oriented business complies with the development, operational
or performance standards found in this chapter.
3. The permit applicant is at least 18 years of age.
4. The required application fees have been paid.
5. The application complies with Section 9. 12. 030.
J. A permittee, applicant or substantially related entity wherein the new application
is made by an individual or previous entity exercising management or oversight or control of the
9. 12 (4) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
adult- oriented business, cannot re-apply for an adult- oriented business regulatory permit for a
specific location within one year from the date of prior denial.
K. Any affected person may appeal the decision of the Director in writing within ten
days in accordance with the provisions of Section 9. 12. 100.
L. It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, engage in, conduct, or
carry on any adult business within the City of Vista unless the person first obtains, and
continues to maintain in full force and effect, an adult-oriented business permit as herein
required. Any occurrence of the " establishment of an adult-oriented business" as defined in
Section 18. 84.020 of Chapter 18. 84 of the Vista Development Code shall require a new
application for an adult-oriented business regulatory permit.
M. Any person who violates the above section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to a fine of$ 1, 000 and/ or imprisonment for a period of up to six months.
Prior Code 19- 31; Ord. No. 73- 22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Amended 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No.
2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 050 Adult-Oriented Business Development and Performance Standards
A. Hours of Operation. It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager,
employee or independent contractor of an adult-oriented business to allow such adult- oriented
business to remain open for business, or to license any employee, independent contractor or
performer to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide
a service, or solicit a service, between the hours of 12: 00 a.m. and 8: 00 a. m. of any day
excepting here from an " adult hotel/ motel."
B. Exterior Lighting Requirements. All exterior areas, including parking lots, of the
adult- oriented business shall be illuminated at a minimum of 1. 50 foot candle, maintained and
evenly distributed at ground level with appropriate devices to screen, deflect or diffuse the
lighting in such manner as to prevent glare or reflected light from creating adverse impacts on
adjoining and nearby public and private properties. Inoperable and/ or broken lights shall be
replaced within 24 hours.
C. Interior Lighting Requirements. All interior areas of the adult-oriented business
excepting there from adult hotels/ motels shall be illuminated at a minimum of 1. 00 foot candle,
maintained and evenly distributed at floor level. Inoperable and/ or broken lights shall be
replaced within 24 hours, excepting here from an " adult hotel/ motel."
D. Regulation of Adult Booth/ Individual Viewing Area.
1. No adult booth/ individual viewing area shall be occupied by more than
one individual at a time.
2. Each adult booth/ individual viewing area within the adult-oriented
business shall be visible from a continuous and accessible main aisle in a public portion of the
establishment, and shall not be obscured by any door, curtain, wall, two-way mirror or other
device which would prohibit a person from seeing the entire interior of the adult booth/ individual
viewing area from the main aisle. Any adult- oriented business may have more than one
manager station in order to ensure compliance with this regulation. At all times, the manager
station( s) shall be maintained to ensure a clear line of sight into the interior of the adult/booth
individual viewing area. Further, no one shall maintain any adult booth/ individual viewing area
in any configuration unless the entire interior wherein the picture or entertainment that is viewed
is visible from the manager station(s). The entire body of any patron in any adult
booth/ individual viewing area must be visible from the main aisle and the manager station( s)
without the assistance of mirrors or any other device.
3. No doors are permitted on an adult booth/ individual viewing area. No
partially or fully enclosed adult booth/ individual viewing areas or partially or fully concealed adult
booth/ individual viewing areas shall be maintained.
9. 12 (5) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
4. No holes or other openings shall be permitted between adult
booths/ individual viewing areas. Any such hole or opening shall be repaired within 24 hours
using " pop" rivets to secure metal plates over the hole or opening to prevent patrons from
removing the metal plates.
5. No beds, couches or chairs with a sitting area greater than 24 inches
wide shall be permitted in an adult booth/ individual viewing area.
E. On Site Manager. All adult- oriented businesses shall have a responsible person
who shall be at least 18 years of age and shall be on the premises to act as manager at all
times during which the business is open. No performer may serve as the manager. The
individual( s) designated as the on- site manager shall provide his/ her name to the Chief of Police
to receive all complaints and be given by the owner and/ or operator the responsibility and duty
to address and immediately resolve all violations taking place on the premises.
F. Security. All adult- oriented businesses shall employ security guards in order to
maintain the public peace and safety, based upon the following standards:
1. Adult- oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall provide at
least one security guard at all times while the business is open.
2. If the occupancy limit of the premises is greater than 35 persons, an
additional security guard shall be on duty.
3. Security guard( s) shall be charged with preventing violations of law and
enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these regulations. Security guard( s)
shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be readily identifiable as a security guard by the
public and shall be duly licensed as a security guard as required by applicable provisions of
state law. No security guard required pursuant to this subsection shall act as a door person,
ticket seller, ticket taker, admittance person, or sole occupant of the manager's station while
acting as a security guard.
G. Interior of Premises. No exterior door or window on the premises of an adultoriented
business shall be propped or kept open at anytime while the business is open.
H. Displays of Adult- Oriented Materials. All displays of materials characterized or
distinguished on matters describing or relating to " specified sexual activities" or " specified
anatomical areas," as defined in Section 18. 84.020 of Chapter 18. 84 of the Vista Development
Code, shall be completely screened from public view as viewed from adjacent sidewalks or
public rights- of-way.
I. Signs. All adult-oriented businesses shall comply with the following sign
requirements, in addition to those of the Vista Municipal Code. Should a conflict exist between
the requirements of the Vista Municipal Code and this subsection, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
1. If an adult-oriented business does not serve alcohol, it shall post a notice
inside the establishment, within ten feet of every entrance used by customers for access to the
establishment, stating that persons below the age of 18 years of age are prohibited from
entering onto the premises or within the confines of the adult-oriented business. This notice
shall be posted on a wall in a place of prominence. The dimensions of the notice shall be no
less than six inches by six inches, with a minimum typeface of 25 points. If the adult- oriented
business serves alcohol, it shall comply with all notice and posting requirements of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Department.
2. No adult-oriented material shall be displayed in window areas or any area
where it would be visible from any location other than within the confines of the adult- oriented
business.
J. Regulation of Public Restroom Facilities. If the adult- oriented business provides
restrooms for patron use, it shall provide separate restroom facilities for male and female
patrons. The restrooms shall be free from adult-oriented material. Only one person shall be
allowed in each restroom at any time, unless otherwise required by law, in which case the adult-
9. 12 (6) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
oriented business shall employ a restroom attendant of the same sex as the restroom users
who shall be present in the public portion of the restroom during operating hours. The attendant
shall insure that no person of the opposite sex is permitted into the restroom, and that not more
than one person is permitted to enter a restroom stall, unless otherwise required by law, and
that the restroom facilities are used only for their intended sanitary purposes. Access to
restrooms for patron use shall not require passage through an area used as a dressing area by
performers.
K. Trash. All interior trash cans shall be emptied into a single locked trash bin lined
with a plastic bag or with individually bagged trash at least once a day. At least four times a
day, the front and rear exteriors of any adult-oriented business, along with the parking lot, shall
be inspected for trash and debris and any trash and debris found shall be immediately removed
and placed into a single locked trash bin lined with a plastic bag.
L. Adult- Oriented Business Offering Adult Live Entertainment - Additional Operating
Requirements. The following additional requirements shall apply to adult-oriented businesses
providing adult live entertainment:
1. No person shall perform adult live entertainment for patrons of an adultoriented
business except upon a permanently fixed stage at least 18 inches above the level of
the floor, and surrounded with a three foot high barrier or by a fixed rail at least 30 inches in
height. No patron shall be permitted on the stage while the stage is occupied by a performer(s)
and/ or adult cabaret dancer(s). This provision shall not apply to an individual viewing area
where the performer is completely separated from the area in which the performer is viewed by
an individual by a permanent, floor to ceiling, solid barrier.
2. No performer or adult cabaret dancer shall be within ten feet of a patron,
measured horizontally, while the performer or adult cabaret dancer is performing adult live
entertainment. While on stage, no performer or adult cabaret dancer shall have physical
contact with any patron, and no patron shall have physical contact with any performer or adult
cabaret dancer.
3. As to off stage performances, no performer or adult cabaret dancer shall
perform " adult live entertainment" off stage. As to an adult cabaret dancer performing off stage,
a distance of at least two feet shall be maintained between the adult cabaret dancer and the
patron( s) at all times. During off stage performances, no adult cabaret dancer shall have
physical contact with any patron, and no patron shall have physical contact with any adult
cabaret dancer.
4. In addition, while on the premises, no performer or adult cabaret dancer
shall have physical contact with a patron and no patron shall have physical contact with a
performer or adult cabaret dancer, which physical contact involves the touching of the clothed or
unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, cleft of the buttocks, perineum, anal region, or female
breast with any part or area of any other person' s body either before or after any adult live
entertainment or off stage performances by such performer or adult cabaret dancer. Patrons
shall be advised of the no touching requirements by signs and, if necessary, by employees,
independent contractors, performers, or adult cabaret dancers of the establishment. This
prohibition does not extend to incidental touching.
5. Patrons shall be advised of the separation and no touching requirements
by signs conspicuously displayed and placed on the barrier between patrons and performers
and utilizing red or black printing of letters not less than one inch in size. And, if necessary,
patrons shall also be advised of the separation and no touching requirements by employees or
independent contractors of the establishment.
6. All employees and independent contractors of the adult facility, excepting
there from performers while performing on the fixed stage, while on or about the premises or
tenant space, shall wear at a minimum an opaque covering which covers their specified
anatomical areas.
9. 12 (7) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
7. Patrons shall not throw money to performers, place monies in the
performers' costumes or otherwise place or throw monies on the stage. If patrons wish to pay
or tip performers, payment or tips may be placed in containers. Patrons shall be advised of this
requirement by signs conspicuously displayed and placed on the barrier between patrons and
performers and utilizing red or black printing of letters not less than one inch in size. If
necessary, patrons shall also be advised of the tipping and gratuity requirements by employees
or independent contractors of the adult-oriented business.
8. The adult- oriented business shall provide dressing rooms for performers,
that are separated by gender and exclusively dedicated to the performers' use and which the
performers shall use. Same gender performers may share a dressing room. Patrons shall not
be permitted in dressing rooms.
9. The adult-oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit to the
establishment for performers that is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons, which the
performers shall use at all times.
10. The adult- oriented business shall provide access for performers between
the stage and the dressing rooms that is completely separated from the patrons. If such
separate access is not physically feasible, the adult-oriented business shall provide a minimum
three foot wide walk aisle for performers between the dressing room area and the stage, with a
railing, fence or other barrier separating the patrons and the performers capable of ( and which
actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons and performers and the
patrons must also be three feet away from the walk aisle. Nothing in this section is intended to
exempt the adult-oriented business from compliance with the provisions of Title 24 of the
California Code of Regulations pertaining to handicapped accessibility.
M. Adult Motion Picture Theater - Additional Operating Requirements.
The following additional requirements shall apply to adult motion picture theaters:
1. If the theater contains a hall or auditorium area, the area shall comply
with each of the following provisions:
a. Have individual, separate seats, not couches, benches, or the like,
to accommodate the maximum number of persons who may occupy the hall or auditorium area;
b. Have a continuous main aisle alongside the seating areas in order
that each person seated in the hall or auditorium area shall be visible from the aisle at all times;
and
C. Have a sign posted in a conspicuous place at or near each
entrance to the hall or auditorium area which lists the maximum number of persons who may
occupy the hall or auditorium area, which number shall not exceed the number of seats within
the hall or auditorium area.
2. If an adult motion picture theater is designed to permit outdoor viewing by
patrons seated in automobiles, it shall have the motion picture screen so situated, or the
perimeter of the establishment so fenced, that the material to be seen by those patrons may not
be seen from any public right- of-way, child day care facility, public park, school, or religious
institution or any residentially zoned property occupied with a residence.
Prior Code 19- 30; Ord. No. 73- 22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No.
2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 060 Employment of and Services Rendered to Persons Under the Age of
18 Years Prohibited; 21 if Liquor is Served
A. Employees/ Independent Contractors. Employees and independent contractors
of an adult-oriented business must be at least 18 years of age. It shall be unlawful for any
owner, operator, manager, partner, director, officer, shareholder with a ten percent or greater
interest, employees, or other person in charge of any adult-oriented business to employ,
9. 12 (8) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
contract with, or otherwise retain any services in connection with the adult oriented business
with or from any person who is not at least 18 years of age. If liquor is served at the adultoriented
business, employees and independent contractors of the adult-oriented business must
be at least 21 years of age. If liquor is served at the adult-oriented business, it shall be
unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, partner, director, officer, shareholder with a ten
percent or greater interest, employee, or other person in charge of any adult-oriented business
to employ, contract with, or otherwise retain any services in connection with the adult- oriented
business with or from any person who is not 21 years of age. Said persons shall exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of persons seeking to contract with, be employed
by, or otherwise service the adult-oriented business.
B. Patrons. Patrons of an adult-oriented business must be at least 18 years of age.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, partner, director, officer, shareholder with
a ten percent or greater interest, employee, independent contractor, or other person in charge of
any adult- oriented business to permit to enter or remain within the adult-oriented business any
person who is not at least 18 years of age. If liquor is served at the adult-oriented business,
patrons must be at least 21 years of age. If liquor is served at the adult- oriented business, it
shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, partner, director, officer, shareholder with a
ten percent or greater interest, employee, independent contractor, or other person in charge of
any adult- oriented business to permit to enter or remain within the adult-oriented business any
person who is not at least 21 years of age. Said persons shall exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of persons entering the adult-oriented business.
C. X- Rated Movies. The selling, renting and/ or displaying of x- rated movies,
videotapes, digital video disks ( DVDs), compact disks ( CDs) and laser disks shall be restricted
to persons over 18 years of age. If an establishment that is not otherwise prohibited from
providing access to the establishment to persons under 18 years of age sells, rents, or displays
movies, videos, DVDs, CDs or laser disks that have been rated " X" or rated " NC- 17' by the
motion picture rating industry (" MPAA"), or which have not been submitted to the MPAA for a
rating, and which consist of images that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, said movies,
videos, DVDs, CDs, and laser disks shall be located in a specific section of the establishment
where these items are not visible to persons under the age of 18 and from which persons under
the age of 18 shall be prohibited.
Prior Code 19- 31; Ord. No. 73- 22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No.
2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 070 Inspections
Each owner, operator, manager, employee or independent contractor of an adultoriented
business or other person in charge of an adult- oriented business shall permit
representatives of the Police Services Department, Health Department, Fire Department, the
Planning Division, Business License Division and Code Compliance Division and other City
Departments and Divisions, to inspect the adult-oriented business for the purpose of insuring
compliance with the laws and operating standards applicable to adult-oriented businesses at
any time it is occupied or open for business. Such inspections shall be conducted in a
reasonable manner.
Prior Code 19- 32; Ord. No. 73-22, Added 4/ 5/ 73; 22; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord.
No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
9. 12 (9) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 12. 080 Transfer of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory Permit
A. A permit holder shall not operate an adult-oriented business under the authority
of an adult- oriented business permit at any place other than the address of the adult- oriented
business stated in the application for the permit.
B. In the event of a transfer of ownership of the adult-oriented business, the new
owner shall be fully informed of the requirements of this chapter, including the operational and
development standards herein.
C. In the event of a transfer of the adult-oriented business or the adult- oriented
business permit, the transferee must provide the Director with the following information within
seven days of the transfer:
1. If the transferee is an individual, the individual shall state his or her legal
name, including any aliases, and address, and shall submit satisfactory written proof that he or
she is at least 18 years of age.
2. If the transferee is a partnership, the partners shall state the partnership' s
complete name, address, the names of all partners, and whether the partnership is general or
limited; and shall attach a copy of the partnership agreement, if any.
3. If the transferee is a corporation or L. L. C., the entity shall provide its
complete name, the date of its incorporation or organization, evidence that it is in good standing
under the laws of the state of California, the names and capacities of all officers and directors,
managers or members having supervisory or managerial control over the facility, the name of
the registered agent, and the address of the registered office for service of process.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 090 Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Regulatory
Permit
A. On determining that grounds for permit suspension or revocation exist, the
Director shall furnish written notice of the proposed suspension or revocation to the permit
holder. Such notice shall set forth the time and place of a hearing and the ground or grounds
upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent Municipal Code sections, and a brief statement
of the factual matters in support thereof. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
addressed to the last known address of the permit holder, or shall be delivered to the permit
holder personally, at least ten days prior to the hearing date. Hearings pursuant to this section
shall be noticed in accordance with California Government Code Sections 65091 and 65905
conducted by the City Director or designee, including a third party hearing officer. Hearings
pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with procedures established by the
Director but, at a minimum, shall include the following:
1. All parties involved shall have the right to offer testimonial, documentary,
and tangible evidence bearing upon the issues and may be represented by counsel.
2. The Director shall not be bound by the formal rules of evidence.
3. Any hearing under this section may be continued for a reasonable time
for the convenience of a party or a witness at the request of the permit holder. Extensions of
time or continuances sought by a permit holder shall not be considered delay on the part of the
City or constitute failure by the City to provide for prompt decisions on permit suspensions or
revocations.
4. The Director' s decision may be appealed in accordance with Section
9. 12. 100.
9. 12 ( 10) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. A permit may be suspended or revoked based on the following causes arising
from the acts or omissions of the permit holder, or an employee, independent contractor,
partner, director, or manager of the permit holder:
1. The building, structure, equipment, or location used by the adult- oriented
business fails to comply with all provisions of these regulations and this section relating to adultoriented
businesses, including the adult- oriented business operational standards contained in
Section 9. 12. 050 above and the zoning requirements of Chapter 18. 84, and all other applicable
building, fire, electrical, plumbing, health, and zoning requirements of the Vista Municipal Code.
2. The permit holder has failed to obtain or maintain all required City
licenses.
3. The permit holder has made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for an adult- oriented business permit.
4. The permit is being used to conduct an activity different from that for
which it was issued.
5. That an individual employed by, or performing in, the adult- oriented
business ( whether classified as an employee or independent contractor) has been convicted of
two or more sex- related offenses that occurred in or on the licensed premises within a 12 month
period and was employed by, or performing in, the adult-oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed.
6. That the use for which the approval was granted has ceased to exist or
has been suspended for six months or more.
7. That the transferee/ new owner of an adult-oriented business or adultoriented
business permit failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
8. The permit holder, partner, director, or manager has knowingly allowed or
permitted, or has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the adult- oriented business; or a permittee has been convicted of
violating any of the following state laws on the premises of the adult-oriented business:
a. Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or
masturbation.
b. Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation openly occur.
C. Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under Section 290 of the California Penal Code.
d. The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation, or prostitution,
including any conduct constituting violations of Sections 315, 316, 318 or Subdivision ( b) of the
Section 647b of the California Penal Code.
e. Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the California
Penal Code relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to minors, including, but
not limited to, Sections 311 through 313.4.
f. Any act constituting a felony involving the sale, use, possession,
or possession for sale of any controlled substance specified in Sections 11054, 11055, 11056,
11057, or 11058 of the California Health & Safety Code.
g. An act or omission in violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter if such act or omission is with the knowledge, authorization, or approval of the license
holder or is as a result of the permit holder' s negligent supervision of the employees or
independent contractors of the adult facility. This includes the allowance of activities that are or
become a public nuisance which includes the disruptive conduct of business patrons whether on
or immediately off the premises where such patrons disturb the peace, obstruct traffic, damage
property, engage in criminal conduct, violate the law and otherwise impair the free enjoyment of
life and property.
9. 12 ( 11) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this section, if the
Director finds and determines that there are grounds for suspension or revocation, the Director
shall impose one of the following:
1. Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed six months;
or
2. Revocation of the permit. The Director shall render a written decision that
shall be hand delivered or overnight mailed to the permit holder within five days of the public
hearing.
D. In the event a permit is revoked pursuant to this section, another adult- oriented
business permit to operate an adult-oriented business shall not be granted to the permittee or
an entity related to the permittee within 12 months after the date of such revocation.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 100 Appeal Procedures
A. After approval, denial, suspension or revocation of a permit, any affected person
may appeal the decision to the City Council in writing within ten days after the written decision.
B. Consideration of an appeal of the decision shall be at a public hearing, notice of
which shall be given pursuant to California Government Code Sections 65091 and 65905 and
which hearing shall occur within 30 days of the filing or initiation of the appeal.
C. The City Council action on the appeal of the decision shall be by a majority vote
of the members present and upon the conclusion of the de novo public hearing, the City Council
shall grant or deny the appeal. The City Council' s decision shall be final and conclusive and
shall be rendered in writing within four City business days of the hearing, such written decision
to be mailed to the party appealing the Director' s decision.
D. In reaching its decision, the City Council shall not be bound by the formal rules of
evidence.
E. Notwithstanding any provisions in this section regarding the occurrence of any
action within a specified period of time, the applicant may request additional time beyond that
provided for in this section or may request a continuance regarding any decision or
consideration by the City of the pending appeal. Extensions of time sought by applicants shall
not be considered delay on the part of the City or constitute failure by the City to provide for
prompt decisions on applications.
F. Failure of the City Council to render a decision to grant or deny an appeal of a
permit denial within the time frames established by this section shall be deemed to constitute an
approval of the adult-oriented business permit.
G. The time for a court challenge to a decision of the City Council is governed by
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
H. Notice of the City Council' s decision and its findings shall include citation to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
I. Any applicant or permit holder whose permit has been denied pursuant to this
section shall be afforded prompt judicial review of that decision as provided by California Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
9. 12 ( 12) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Article 2 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
Section 9. 12. 110 Purpose
It is the purpose and intent of this article to provide for the licensing of adult- oriented
business performers in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the City. The
goals of the performer licensing provisions are ( 1) to protect minors by requiring that all
performers be over the age of 18 years; (2) to assure the correct identification of persons
performing in adult-oriented businesses; ( 3) to enable the City to deploy law enforcement
resources effectively; and ( 4) to detect and discourage the involvement of crime in adultoriented
businesses by precluding the licensing of performers with certain sex- related
convictions in a set time period. It is neither the intent nor the effect of these regulations to
invade the privacy of performers or to impose limitations or restrictions on the content of any
communicative material. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor the effect of these regulations to
restrict or deny access by adults to communicative materials or to deny access by the
distributors or exhibitors of adult- oriented businesses to their intended lawful market. Nothing in
these regulations is intended to authorize, legalize, or permit the establishment, operation, or
maintenance of any business, building, or use which violates any City ordinance or any statute
of the state of California regarding public nuisances, unlawful or indecent exposure, sexual
conduct, lewdness, obscene or harmful matter, or the exhibition or public display thereof.
Ord. 2001- 12, Adopted 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Enacted 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Enacted 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 120 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License
A. No performer shall be employed, hired, engaged, or otherwise retained in an
adult- oriented business as defined in Section 18. 84.020 of Chapter 18. 84 of the Vista
Development Code to participate in or give any live performance displaying " specified
anatomical areas" or " specified sexual activities" without first having a valid adult- oriented
business performer license issued by the City.
B. All persons required by Section 9. 12. 120 to obtain an adult business performer
permit must apply and obtain such within five days of the effective date of this section. Any
person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to
1, 000 and/ or imprisonment for a period of up to six months.
C. The City Manager or his or her designee shall grant, deny, and renew adultoriented
business performer licenses in accordance with these regulations.
D. License applicants shall file a written, signed, and verified application or renewal
application on a form provided by the Chief of Police. Such application shall contain the
following information:
1. The license applicant' s legal name and any other names ( including " stage
names" and aliases) used by the applicant.
2. Principal place of residence.
3. Age, date and place of birth.
4. Height, weight, hair and eye color and tattoo descriptions and locations.
5. Each present and/ or proposed business address(es) and telephone
number(s) of the establishments at which the applicant intends to work.
6. Drivers license or identification number and state of issuance.
7. Social security number.
8. Satisfactory written proof that the license applicant is a least 18 years of
age.
9. 12 ( 13) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
9. The license applicant' s fingerprints on a form provided by the Vista Police
Department and two color, two by two inch, photographs clearly showing the applicant' s face.
Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant. Fingerprints and
photographs shall be taken within six months of the date of application.
10. Whether the license applicant has pled guilty or nolo contendere or been
convicted of an offense classified by this or any other state as a sex- related offense, and ( a)
less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from
confinement of conviction to the date of application, whichever is the later date, if the conviction
is a misdemeanor; or ( b) less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement of conviction to the date of conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony; or ( c) less than five years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction to the date of
application, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanors or
combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24- month period.
11. If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license, the
license applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
E. The information provided above in Section C which is personal, private,
confidential or the disclosure of which could expose the applicant to the risk of harm will not be
disclosed under the California Public Records Act. Such information includes, but is not limited
to, the applicant' s residence address, telephone number, date of birth and age, driver's license
and social security numbers. The City Council in adopting the application and licensing and/ or
permit system set forth herein has determined in accordance with California Government Code
Section 6255 that the public interest in disclosure of the information set forth above is
outweighed by the public interest in achieving compliance with this chapter by ensuring that the
applicant' s privacy, confidentiality or security interest are protected. The City Clerk shall cause
the above mentioned information to be redacted from any copy of a completed application form
made available to any member of the public.
F. The completed application shall be accompanied by a non- refundable application
fee and an annual license fee. The amount of such fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of
fees established by resolution from time to time by the City Council.
G. The completeness of an application shall be determined within two City business
days by the Chief of Police or his/ her designee. The Chief of Police or his/ her designee must be
available during normal working hours Monday through Friday to accept adult-oriented business
performer applications. If the Chief of Police determines that the application is incomplete, the
Chief of Police shall immediately inform the applicant of such fact and the reasons therefore,
including any additional information necessary to render the application complete. Upon receipt
of a completed adult-oriented business performer application and payment of the license fee
specified in Section F above, the Chief of Police shall immediately issue a temporary license
which shall expire of its own accord 14 business days from the date of issuance. However, if
the results of the fingerprint investigation have not been received at the expiration of the period,
said temporary license shall automatically renew for a 14 business day period, until the results
are received.
H. This temporary adult-oriented business performer license shall authorize a
performer to commence performance at an adult-oriented business establishment that
possesses a valid adult-oriented business license authorized to provide adult live entertainment.
I. The fact that a license applicant possesses other types of state or City permits or
licenses does not exempt the license applicant from the requirement of obtaining an adultoriented
business performer license.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
9. 12 ( 14) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 12. 130 Investigation and Action on Application for Adult-Oriented Business
Performer License
A. Upon submission of a completed application, payment of license fees, and
issuance of a temporary adult-oriented business performer license pursuant to Section
9. 12. 120, the Chief of Police shall immediately stamp the application " Received" and in
conjunction with City staff, including members of the police department, shall promptly
investigate the information contained in the application to determine whether the license
applicant should be issued an adult-oriented business performer license.
B. Investigation shall not be grounds for the City to unilaterally delay in reviewing a
completed application.
C. The Chief of Police shall render a written decision to grant or deny the license
within the time period set forth in Subsection b of this section. Said decision shall be mailed first
class postage prepaid or hand delivered to the applicant, within the foregoing 14 day period or
extension period if extended pursuant to Section 9. 12. 120( G) at the address provided by the
applicant in the application.
D. The Chief of Police shall notify the applicant as follows:
1. The Chief of Police shall write or stamp " Granted" or " Denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation.
2. If the application is denied, the Chief of Police shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for the denial. Such notice shall also provide that the
license applicant may appeal the denial to the City Council in accordance with Section 9. 12. 150.
3. If the application is granted, the Chief of Police shall attach to the
application an adult-oriented business performer license.
4. The application, as acted upon, and the license, if any, shall be placed in
the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, or hand delivered, addressed to the license
applicant at the residence address stated in the application in accordance with the time frames
established herein.
E. The Chief of Police shall grant the application and issue the license unless the
application is denied based on one of the grounds set forth in Subsection F of this section.
F. The Chief of Police shall deny the application based on any of the following
grounds:
1. The license applicant has made false, misleading, or fraudulent
statements of material fact in the application for an adult-oriented business performer license or
omission of a material fact necessary to be complete and accurate.
2. The license applicant is under 18 years of age.
3. The adult-oriented business performer license is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by laws of the state or City or a business that does not have
a valid adult- oriented business license.
4. The license applicant, has pled guilty, nolo contendere or been convicted
of an offense classified by this or any other state as a sex- related offense and ( a) less than two
years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement of
conviction to the date of application, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a
misdemeanor; or ( b) less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date
of release from confinement of conviction to the date of application, whichever is the later date,
if the conviction is a felony; or ( c) less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction to the date of application,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanors or combination of
misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24- month period.
9. 12 ( 15) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
G. Failure of the Chief of Police to render a decision on the license within the time
frames established by this section shall be deemed to constitute an approval, subject to appeal
to the City Council, pursuant to Section 9. 12. 150.
H. Each adult- oriented business performer license, other than the temporary license
described in Section 9. 12. 120F, shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by filing with the Chief of Police a written request for renewal, accompanied by the
annual license fee and a copy of the license to be renewed. If said application conforms to the
previously approved application and there has been no change with respect to the license
holder being convicted of any crime classified by this or any other state as a sex- related
offense, the Chief of Police or his/ her designee shall renew the license for one year. Any plea
to or conviction of a sex-related offense requires the renewal application to be set for hearing
before the Chief of Police in accordance with the provisions of this section. The request for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date of the license. Applications
for renewal shall be acted upon as provided herein for action upon applications for license. The
Chief of Police' s denial of a renewal application is appealable pursuant to the provisions of
Section 9. 12. 150.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 140 Suspension or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business Performer
License
A. On determining that grounds for license suspension or revocation exist, the Chief
of Police shall furnish written notice of the proposed suspension or revocation to the license
holder. Such notice shall set forth the time and place of a hearing and the ground or grounds
upon which the hearing is based, the pertinent Municipal Code sections, and a brief statement
of the factual matters in support thereof. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
addressed to the last known address of the license holder, or shall be delivered to the license
holder personally, at least ten days prior to the hearing date. Hearings pursuant to this section
shall be conducted by the City Manager or a Designated Hearing Officer designated by him/ her
which can include a retired judge. Hearings pursuant to this section shall be conducted in
accordance with procedures established by the City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer but,
at a minimum shall include the following:
1. All parties involved shall have the right to offer testimonial, documentary,
and tangible evidence bearing upon the issues and may be represented by counsel.
2. The City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer shall not be bound by
the formal rules of evidence.
3. Any hearing under this section may be continued for a reasonable time
for the convenience of a party or a witness at the request of the license holder. Extensions of
time or continuances sought by a license holder shall not be considered delay on the part of the
City or constitute failure by the City to provide for prompt decisions on license suspensions or
revocations.
4. The City Manager's decision may be appealed in accordance with
Section 9. 12. 150.
B. A license may be revoked, based on any of the following causes arising from the
acts or omissions of the license holder:
1. The licensee has made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statements of
material fact in the application for a performer license or omission of a material fact necessary to
be complete and accurate.
2. The licensee has pled guilty, nolo contendere or been convicted of an
offense classified by this or any other state as a sex-related offense and ( a) less than two years
9. 12 ( 16) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement of conviction
to the date of application, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a misdemeanor; or ( b)
less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from
confinement of conviction to the date of application, whichever is the later date, if the conviction
is a felony; or ( c) less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction or the
date of release from confinement for the conviction to the date of application, whichever is the
later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanors or combination of misdemeanor
offenses occurring within any 24- month period.
3. Failure to comply with the operating standards of Section 9. 12. 050 or the
requirements of this chapter.
C. After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this section, if the
City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer finds and determines that there are grounds for
suspension or revocation, the City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer shall impose one of
the following:
1. Suspension of the license for a specified period not to exceed six months;
or
2. Revocation of the license.
D. The City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer shall render a written decision
that shall be hand delivered or overnight mailed to the license holder within two days of the
public hearing. Failure to render such a decision within this time frame shall constitute an
approval or reinstatement of the license, subject to appeal to the City Council, pursuant to
Section 9. 12. 150.
E. Any applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager or Designated
Hearing Officer in writing within ten days in accordance with the provisions of Section 9. 12. 150.
F. In the event a license is revoked pursuant to this section, another adult- oriented
business performer license shall not be granted to the licensee within 12 months after the date
of such revocation.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No.
2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 150 Appeal of Denial or Revocation of Adult-Oriented Business
Performer License
A. The decision of the City Manager or Designated Hearing Officer shall be final and
conclusive and shall be rendered in writing within seven days of the hearing, such written
decision to be immediately mailed to the affected party.
B. Notwithstanding any provisions in this section regarding the occurrence of any
action within a specified period of time, the applicant may request additional time beyond that
provided for in this division or may request a continuance regarding any decision or
consideration by the City of the pending appeal. Extensions of time sought by applicants shall
not be considered delay on the part of the City or constitute failure by the City to provide for
prompt decisions on applications.
C. Failure of the City Manager to render a decision within the time frames
established by this section shall be deemed to constitute an approval or reinstatement of the
adult- oriented business performer license.
D. The time for a court challenge to a decision of the City Manager is governed by
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
E. Notice of the City Manager's decision and his/ her findings shall include citation to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
9. 12 ( 17) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
F. Any applicant or license holder whose license has been denied, suspended, or
revoked, pursuant to this section shall be afforded prompt judicial review of that decision as
provided by California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094. 8.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 160 Display of License and Identification Cards
The Chief of Police shall provide each adult-oriented business performer required to
have an adult-oriented business performer license pursuant to this chapter with an identification
card containing the name, business address, photograph and license number of such
performer. Every performer shall have such card available for inspection at all times during
which he or she is on the premises of the adult-oriented business at which he or she performs.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 170 Register and License Number of Employees
Every owner, operator, manager or licensee in charge or in control of an adult- oriented
business as defined in Section 18. 84.020 of Chapter 18. 84 of the Vista Development Code,
which provides any live performance displaying " specified anatomical areas" or " specified
sexual activities" must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the premises and their
adult- oriented business performer license numbers. Such register shall be available for
inspection during regular business hours by any police officer of the City.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 180 Adult-Oriented Business Performer License Non-Transferable
No adult-oriented business performer license may be sold, transferred, or assigned by
any licensee or by operation of law, to any other person, group, partnership, corporation, or any
other entity. Any such sale, transfer, or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer, or assignment
shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of the adult-oriented business performer
license, and the license thereafter shall be null and void.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06
Section 9. 12. 190 Time Limit for Filing Application for Adult-Oriented Business Performer
License
All persons required by this chapter to obtain an adult-oriented business performer
license must apply for and obtain such adult- oriented business performer license within 30 days
of the effective date of this section. Failure to do so and continued performance that displays
specified anatomical areas" or " specified sexual activities" in an adult-oriented business after
such time without a license shall constitute a violation of this section.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
9. 12 ( 18) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Article 3 Enforcement
Section 9. 12. 200 Violations
A. Any owner, operator, manager, employee or independent contractor of an adultoriented
business violating or permitting, counseling, or assisting the violation of any of these
provisions regulating adult-oriented businesses shall be subject to any and all civil remedies,
including license revocation. All remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive. Any violation of these provisions shall constitute a separate violation for each and
every day during which such violation is committed or continued.
B. In addition to the remedies set forth in Subsection A of this section, any adultoriented
business that is operating in violation of these provisions regulating adult-oriented
businesses is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and, as such, may be abated or
enjoined from further operation.
C. The restrictions imposed pursuant to this section constitute a licensing process,
and do not constitute a criminal offense. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Vista
Municipal Code, the City does not impose a criminal penalty for violations of the provisions of
this ordinance related to sexual conduct or activities.
Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 2006; Ord. No. 2006- 17, Repealed and
Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Article 4 Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 9. 12. 210 Regulations Non- Exclusive
The provisions of this chapter regulating adult-oriented businesses are not intended to
be exclusive, and compliance therewith shall not excuse non- compliance with any other
provisions of the Municipal Code and/ or any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City Council of the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 9. 12. 220 Severability
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter
and the ordinance to which it is a part, or any part thereof is held for any reason to be
unconstitutional, invalid, or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases shall not be affected
thereby. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this chapter and the
ordinance to which it is a part regardless of the fact that one or more sections, subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases may be determined to be unconstitutional, invalid,
or ineffective.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added 7/ 10/ 2001; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 13, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 17, Repealed and Replaced 8/ 8/ 06)
9. 12 ( 19) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 16
Weapons
Sections:
9. 16. 010 Discharging Firearms Prohibited; Exceptions
9. 16. 020 Throwing Missiles Prohibited
9. 16. 030 Selling Weapons to Minors
9. 16. 040 Records Relative to Secondhand Weapons
9. 16. 050 Reward for Firearm Discharge Violation
9. 16. 060 Ammunition Sales Prohibited
Section 9. 16. 010 Discharging Firearms Prohibited; Exceptions
A. No person shall shoot, fire or discharge any pistol, revolver, gun, rifle or other
firearm or device fired or discharged by an explosive charge within the corporate limits of this city,
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the following individuals under the
circumstances described.
1. Sheriffs, constables, marshals, policemen, members of the California
Highway Patrol, and other duly appointed peace officers within the meaning of California Penal
Code Section 817, whether active or retired, other duly appointed peace officers, paid peace
officers of other states and the federal government who are carrying out official duties in
California, or any person summoned by any such officer to assist in making arrests or preserving
the peace while actually engaged in assisting such officer.
2. Members of the armed forces of the United States or the National Guard
when on duty, or members of organizations under contract to the United States of America or the
State of California when acting within the scope of such contract, or law.
3. Private or commercial security guards or messengers of common carriers,
banks, financial and other institutions, who are properly licensed by a lawful authority to carry and
discharge such weapons, when acting in a lawful manner within the scope and course of their
employment.
4. Members of a club or organization while engaged in the practice of
shooting at targets within a lawfully established shooting or target range.
B. A violation of this section shall be misdemeanor.
Prior Code 31- 1, Ord. 66- 19, Adopted, 9/ 6/ 66; Ord. No. 96- 10, Amended, 05/ 28/ 96)
Section 9. 16. 020 Throwing Missiles Prohibited
No person shall discharge any air gun, slingshot, or bean shooter, or throw, hurl, heave, or
propel any sharp- pointed missile, dart, or arrow upon any public street or sidewalk or public
gathering place within the corporate limits of this city.
Prior Code 31- 2; Ord. 66- 19, Adopted, 9/ 6/ 66)
Section 9. 16. 030 Selling Weapons to Minors
No person shall sell to any minor child ( age 18 and under) any dart, arrow, or sharppointed
missile, pistol, revolver, gun, rifle, or any other firearm or device fired or discharged by
explosives within the corporate limits of this city.
Prior Code 31- 3; Ord. No. 66- 19, Adopted, 9/ 6/ 66)
9. 16 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 16. 040 Records Relative to Secondhand Weapons
A. If a seller licensed by the City to sell firearms, has offered to him for purchase or
for acceptance in trade a used or secondhand concealable weapon, he shall first obtain from
the person offering such weapon the following information:
1. Name, address and physical description of such person.
2. The description and license number of the vehicle, if any, by which the
person arrived at seller' s place of business.
3. The caliber, manufacturer's name, description, serial number or numbers,
and initials or other identifying marks of the offered weapon.
4. Such other information which may be required by the Sheriff.
B. Such information shall be recorded on forms furnished by the Sheriff. On
Monday of each week such dealer shall file with the Sheriff such completed form with respect to
each used or secondhand concealable weapon purchased or taken in trade during the
preceding week by such dealer.
Prior Code 31- 4; Ord. No. 75- 27, Adopted 6/ 23/ 75)
Section 9. 16. 050 Reward for Firearm Discharge Violation
A. Reward.
The City Council may pay a reward not to exceed $ 500 per incident for
information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person for violation of Municipal Code
Section 9. 16. 010, discharge of firearms within corporate limits of the city, or for violation of
Penal Code 246. 3 of the state of California, the discharging of a firearm in a grossly negligent
manner if the discharge results in damage to property of death or injury to any person. In the
event there are multiple contributors of such information, the reward amount may be divided by
the city in the manner it shall deem appropriate. For the purposes of the section, diversion or a
plea bargain to a lesser offense shall constitute a conviction. The City Manager shall distribute
information to inform the community that the award has been paid and the circumstances of
such award.
B. Claims.
1. Claims for rewards under this section shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Each claim shall:
a. Specifically identify the date and location where the illegal firearm
discharge took place.
b. Identify by name the person who was convicted, or plead guilty or
nolo contendere to violation of Vista Municipal Code Section 9. 16. 010 or Penal Code Section
246. 3.
C. Identify the court and the date upon which either the conviction or
the plea was entered.
2. All claims for reward shall be reviewed by the City Council and shall be
subject to approval. No claim for reward shall be approved by the City Council unless the City
Manager, or his/ her designee, has investigated and verified the accuracy of the claims and has
recommended that it be allowed.
3. The person committing the offense, or if an unemancipated minor, then the
custodial parent( s) or guardian of said minor, shall be liable for reimbursement to the City for any
reward paid pursuant to this section if the injury, death, or damage was to an employee, volunteer,
or property of the City, or the property of any governmental agency located within the boundaries
of the city. If the individual or custodial parents) or guardian of an unemancipated minor fails to
pay the reward amount within 30 days from the date an invoice is submitted, the City may recover
the reward amount from the individual, or the custodial parent(s) or guardian of an unemancipated
9. 16 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
minor through small claims court or any other legal means.
Ord. No. 96- 8, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 96)
Section 9. 16. 060 Ammunition Sales Prohibited
A. The term " firearm ammunition," as used in this section, shall include any
ammunition for use in pistols, revolvers, rifles, shot guns, or any other device capable of being
used as a weapon, from which is expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or sudden
combustion.
B. Except as specified in Subsection C and D below, no person, including retail gun
dealer, shall sell, give, supply, or transfer ownership of any firearm ammunition during the period
commencing seven days prior to the first day of January (" New Year's Day"), or seven days prior
to the Fourth of July holiday, of each year and ending at midnight of the New Year' s Day or Fourth
of July holiday.
C. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the following:
1. The sale or transfer of ownership of firearm ammunition by a wholesale
gun dealer to another wholesale gun dealer or to a retail gun dealer.
2. The sale of ammunition from which the explosive propellant or combustible
material has been removed and the primer mechanism permanently disabled.
D. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the sale of firearm ammunition to any person
described in Sections 12302 or 12322 of the California Penal Code.
E. This section shall not be interpreted or applied in any manner that conflicts with the
provisions of Title 2, Part 4 of the California Penal Code. In the event any word, term, provision, or
part of this section is deemed to be in conflict with, or preempted by, any law or the Constitution of
the State of California, or any law or the Constitution of the United States of America, such
offending word, term, provision or part shall be deemed removed and inoperative from this
section, and all remaining portions of this section shall be deemed to have been intended to be
adopted in the entirety without such offending word, term, provision, or part.
Ord. No. 96- 9, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 96)
9. 16 ( 3) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 20
Offenses Against Property
Sections:
9. 20. 010 Possession of Spray Paint Cans Prohibited
9. 20. 020 Use of Public Property
9. 20. 030 Trespassing Upon Parking Lots, Shopping Center Property and Other
Property Open to Public
9. 20. 040 Motor Vehicles on Private Property
Section 9. 20.010 Possession of Spray Paint Cans Prohibited
A. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to have in his or her
possession any aerosol spray can containing any substance commonly known as paint while
upon public property or upon private property without the consent of the owner of such private
property, whether such minor is or is not in or on an automobile or other form of conveyance.
B. In addition to any other penalties provided for a violation of this section, a
violator may be required to pay for the costs of repairing any damage to property caused by
that violator's unlawful conduct.
Prior Code 19- 3; Ord. No. 79- 35, Adopted, 8/ 27/ 79)
Section 9. 20.020 Use of public property
A. Definition. For the purpose of this article, the term " camp" means the use of
public property for living accommodations purposes such as sleeping activities, or
preparations to sleep ( including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or
storing personal belongings ( including but not limited to clothing, sleeping bags, bedrolls,
blankets, sheets, luggage, backpacks, kitchen utensils, cookware, and similar material) or
making any fire or using any tents or other structure for sleeping or carrying on cooking
activities, or living in a parked vehicle. These activities constitute camping when it reasonably
appears, in light of all the circumstances, that the participants in conducting these activities,
are in fact using the area as a living accommodation regardless of the intent of the
participants or the nature of any other activities in which they may also be engaging. This
section does not prohibit persons from using blankets to picnic.
B. No person shall camp on any public property, public park, or any public street
or highway, provided that nothing in this section will be construed to prohibit camping in public
campgrounds under permit authorized by other provisions of law or ordinance.
C. No person shall camp on any private property without permission of the owner
or lessee of such property.
D. No person shall sleep or recline in any automobile parked upon any public
street, or highway within the city for any period greater than two hours continuously.
E. No person shall stand or sit on any crosswalk, or any other public street,
highway, public park or property, shopping center or other property opened or dedicated to public
use or to which the public is invited, so as to unreasonably obstruct the free use thereof by the
public or passage therein or thereon by pedestrians, or to hinder, molest, or annoy any person or
persons in passing along the same, or to unreasonably obstruct the entrance of any public hall,
public building, or public park.
Prior Code 19- 7; Ord. No. 68- 47, Adopted, 12/ 2/ 68; Ord. No. 97- 19, Amended, 10/ 14/ 1997)
9. 20 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 20.030 Trespassing upon Parking Lots, Shopping Center Property and
Other Property Open to Public
A. No person other than a public officer or employee acting within the course and
scope of his or her employment shall remain upon, wander, idle, or loiter on any parking lot,
shopping center property or any other place open to the public without apparent reason or
business, or without the written permission of the owner thereof, or the person entitled to the
immediate possession thereof, or the authorized agent of either.
B. Whenever any person is stopped by a law enforcement officer pursuant to this
section, he shall, upon the request of such law enforcement officer, display such written
permission.
Prior Code 19- 7. 1; Ord. No. 82- 26, Adopted, 9/ 27/ 82; Ord. No. 89- 3, Amended, 2/ 13/ 89)
Section 9. 20.040 Motor Vehicles on Private Property
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any lands under cultivation or enclosed by a
fence, belonging to or occupied by another, or drive a motor vehicle on any uncultivated or
unenclosed land where signs forbidding trespass are displayed at intervals not greater than onethird
of a mile along all exterior boundaries and along all roads and trails entering such lands,
without having and, upon request of a peace officer, displaying written permission from the owner
of such lands, or his agent, or the person in lawful possession thereof, provided, however, that
this section is not applicable to persons having visible or lawful business with such owner, agent
or person in lawful possession. Such signs forbidding trespass may be of any size and wording
which will fairly advise persons that the use of the land is so restricted.
Prior Code 19- 8. 1; Ord. No. 70- 29, Adopted, 8/ 3/ 70)
9. 20 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 24
Forfeiture of Motor Vehicles
Sections:
9.24.010 Violation
9.24.020 Vehicle Impoundment
9.24.030 Cause for Abatement
Section 9.24.010 Violation
Any motor vehicle used in the commission of an act in violation of an act in violation of
Section 647(b) of the Penal Code, to solicit or engage in any acts of prostitution, is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
Ord. No. 94- 5, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
Section 9.24.020 Vehicle Impoundment
Any defendant convicted of the underlying offense to solicit or engage in any acts of
prostitution is enjoined from use of the vehicle again for purposes of violating Section 647( b) of the
Penal Code. Any vehicle used in violation of this provision is subject to summary abatement by
temporary impoundment.
Ord. No. 94- 5, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
Section 9.24.030 Cause for Abatement
A vehicle shall not be declared a nuisance and subject to abatement if any of the following
circumstances exist:
A. The vehicle is stolen, unless the identity of the legal and registered owners of the
vehicle cannot reasonably be ascertained.
B. The vehicle is owned by another, or there is a community property interest in the
vehicle owned by a person other than the defendant and the vehicle is the only one available to
the defendant's immediate family that may be operated on the highway with a Class 3 or Class 4
driver's license.
Ord. No. 94- 5, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
9. 24 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9. 26
Aggressive Panhandling
Sections:
9. 26. 010 Aggressive Panhandling - Prohibited
9. 26. 020 Definitions
9. 26. 030 Enforcement
Section 9. 26.010 Aggressive Panhandling - Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person on the streets, sidewalks, or other places open to the
public, whether publicly or privately owned, including parks, to harass or impede any person
for the purpose of inducing that person through coercion, threat and/ or intimidation to give
money or other thing of value.
Ord. No. 94-4, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
Section 9. 26.020 Definitions
A. " Harass" means to irritate or torment persistently.
B. " Impede" means to obstruct or pursue relentlessly and tenaciously.
C. " Coercion" means to enforce or bring about by force or threat.
D. " Threat" means an expression of intention to inflict evil, injury or damage.
E. " Intimidation" means to compel or deter by or as if by threats.
Ord. No. 94-4, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
Section 9. 26.030 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the San Diego County Sheriff's
Department. All violations shall be punishable as an infraction in accordance with Chapter 1-
10 of the Vista City Code.
Ord. No. 94-4, Enacted, 02/ 22/ 94)
9. 26 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9.30
Prohibition of Loitering Around ATM Machines
Sections:
9. 30.010 Findings and Purpose
9. 30.020 Short Title
9. 30.030 Definitions
9. 30.040 Prohibitions
9. 30.050 Penalties
9. 30.060 Posting of Public Notice Required by Owners or Licensees
9. 30.070 Law Enforcement Standards
9. 30.080 Severability
Section 9. 30.010 Findings and Purpose
The City Council of the City of Vista hereby finds that the increased placement and use
of automatic cash dispensing machines and automated bank teller machines, otherwise known
as " ATMs," provide for the public convenience and promote beneficial economic activity within
the community, however the placement and increased use of ATMs is causing increased
exposure of the public to certain criminal activities including, for example robberies and assaults,
and provides new opportunities and incentives for criminal conduct. The City Council finds,
therefore, that new and additional means must be provided to maintain effective law
enforcement and to enable law enforcement officers to prevent such criminal activity. The City
Council further finds that citizens of the community are expressing heightened anxiety and fear
of becoming victims of criminal activity when using ATMs for their legitimate purposes.
The purposes of this ordinance are:
A. To set standards and regulate conduct of the public in and around the immediate
vicinity of any ATM machines by prohibiting loitering.
B. To enhance the well- being of the public using ATMs for their legitimate purposes.
C. To provide law enforcement officers with greater means of preventing and
controlling criminal activity near and around ATMs.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.020 Short Title
This chapter may be cited as the ATM Anti- Loitering Ordinance of the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.030 Definitions
ATM" means any cash dispensing machine, or automated bank teller machine placed
out of doors for the use and convenience of the public in transacting business, withdrawing or
depositing money or instruments, or inquiring about the status of accounts.
Lawful Business" means any business activity that is not prohibited or criminal in
nature.
Loiter" or " Loitering," for the purposes of this chapter, means to delay or linger
without a lawful purpose and for the purpose of committing a crime as opportunity may be
discovered within a distance of 30 feet from any ATM.
9. 30 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Out of Doors" means outside of a building or within a special enclosure designed for
use of ATMs.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.040 Prohibitions
It shall be unlawful, and a violation of this section, for any person to:
A. Loiter within a distance of 30 feet from any ATM located out of doors within the
city of Vista; or
B. Conduct any itinerant or sidewalk business within a distance of 30 feet from any
ATM located out of doors within the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.050 Penalties
A violation of Section 9. 30. 040 shall be either a misdemeanor or an infraction. The
complaint charging such violation shall specify whether the violation is a misdemeanor or an
infraction, which decision shall be made by the City Attorney, or prosecuting official. If charged
as a misdemeanor offense, upon conviction, the violator shall be punished in accordance with
Section 1. 16. 010. D of the Vista Municipal Code. If charged as an infraction, upon conviction,
the violator shall be punished in accordance with Section 1. 16.010.A of the Vista Municipal
Code.
In addition to any criminal penalties that may be imposed upon conviction, the City
Attorney is authorized to seek civil remedies, including injunctive relief, for any actual or
threatened violations of this chapter.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.060 Posting of Public Notice Required by Owners or Licensees
Within 30 days from the effective date of this chapter, the owner of any ATM, or licensee
having control over an ATM, located out of doors within the City of Vista shall post a permanent
notice upon or within five feet of any such ATM, in such manner and location as to be plainly
visible to the public. The contents of the public notice shall be a form substantially as the
following:
LOITERING PROHIBITED
Loitering for any unlawful or criminal purpose, or conducting any itinerant or sidewalk
business, within a distance of 30 feet from this ATM location is unlawful and prohibited by
Section 9. 30. 050 of the Vista Municipal Code. Any person suspected or believed to be in
violation of this regulation is subject to being stopped by any law enforcement officer and
questioned to determine whether such person is or may be in violation of the regulation. The
public is encouraged to notify a law enforcement officer of any person suspected to be in
violation of this regulation.
The first line of the above notice shall be capitalized, in bold print or lettering, with each
letter to be not less than two inches in height. The requirements of this section shall be subject
to enforcement by means of a petition for judicial injunctive relief, upon authorization of the City
Council.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
9. 30 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9. 30.070 Law Enforcement Standards
The prohibitions of Section 9. 30. 040.A are not intended to infringe upon the liberty or
other constitutional rights of any individual, or to interfere in any way with the conduct of lawful
business.
The activities listed below may constitute a basis for reasonable suspicion under which a
law enforcement officer, exercising judgment based on training and experience, may stop and
interrogate a person to determine if there is probable cause to believe that person may be in
violation of Section 9. 30. 040. A:
1. A person lingers within 30 feet of an ATM without apparent legitimate purpose:
a. For more than two minutes when others are using the ATM; or
b. For more than three minutes when there is no other person using the
ATM.
2. A person does not linger, but returns repeatedly to within 30 feet of an ATM
without apparent legitimate purpose.
3. A person expresses a criminal or unlawful purpose by any words, actions or
symbols.
4. Any other conduct, activity, or other basis upon which a law enforcement officer,
using experience and training, may form a reasonable suspicion that a person may be in violation
of the section.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
Section 9. 30.080 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this chapter be for any
reason declared unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity or the effectiveness of the remaining portions of this
chapter, or any part hereof the City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this
chapter notwithstanding the unconstitutionality, invalidity or ineffectiveness of any one or more
to its sections, sentences, clauses, phrase, or word.
Ord. No. 94- 21, Enacted, 09/ 13/ 94)
9. 30 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9.34
Daytime Curfew
Sections:
9. 34.010 Definitions
9. 34.020 Daytime Loitering of Juveniles in Public Places on School Days
9. 34.030 Responsibility
9. 34.040 Enforcement Procedures
9. 34.050 Penalties
Section 9. 34.010 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
A. " Juvenile" means any person under 18 years of age.
B. " Adult" means any person 21 years of age and older.
C. " Parent" means a person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a person.
Parent" includes a court appointed guardian or other person 18 years of age or older,
authorized by the parent, by a court order, or by a court appointed guardian to have the care
and custody of the person.
D. " Emergency" includes, but is not limited to, fire, natural disaster, automobile
accident, or requirement for immediate medical care for another person.
E. " Public place" means any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the common areas
of schools, hospitals, office buildings, transport facilities, shopping centers, and malls.
F. " Establishment" means any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
Ord. No. 2008- 30, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 9. 34.020 Daytime Loitering of Juveniles in Public Places on School Days
A. It is unlawful for any juvenile who is subject to compulsory education or to
compulsory continuation education to loiter, idle, wander, or be in or upon the public streets,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, public
buildings, or the premises of any establishment, vacant lots or any unsupervised place between
the hours of 8: 30 a.m. and 1: 30 p. m. on any day when school is in session for that juvenile.
B. It is a defense to prosecution under Subsection A:
1. When the juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent or other adult
having the care or custody of the juvenile.
2. When the juvenile is on an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or other adult having care or custody of the juvenile.
3. When the juvenile is going to, or coming directly from, his or her place of
school- approved employment.
4. When the juvenile is going to, or coming directly from, a medical
appointment.
5. When the juvenile has permission to leave the school campus for lunch
and has in his or her possession a valid, school- issued, off-campus permit.
6. When the juvenile is going to, or coming from a compulsory alternative
education program activity.
9. 34 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
7. When the juvenile is attending or, without any detour or stop, going to or
returning from an official school, religious, government-sponsored activity, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults.
8. When the juvenile is attending or, without detour or stop, going to or
returning from an event or activity directly related to the medical condition of a parent.
9. When the juvenile is officially enrolled in home schooling.
10. When the minor is authorized to be absent from his or her school
pursuant to the provisions of California Education Code Section 48205, or any other applicable
state or federal law.
11. When the juvenile has passed a general educational development test
and received a California high school equivalency certificate.
Ord. No. 2008- 30, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 9. 34.030 Responsibility
It is unlawful for the parent of any juvenile to knowingly permit or, by insufficient control,
to allow the juvenile to be in violation of Section 9. 34. 020. A.
Ord. No. 2008- 30, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 9. 34.040 Enforcement Procedures
A. Upon any violation of Section 9. 34. 020. A, a peace officer may issue a citation to
the juvenile and may detain the juvenile until he or she can be placed in the care and custody of
his or her parent or may transport the juvenile to his or her home or to the school from which the
juvenile is absent. If cited, the juvenile and a parent shall appear in court as directed in the
citation. The parents shall be advised of the fact that the juvenile was cited for a violation of
Vista Municipal Code Section 9. 34.020.A. The parents shall be warned of their responsibility
and liability as the juvenile's parents.
B. If a parent has been previously warned as set forth in Subsection A, upon a
parent' s first violation of Section 9. 34.030, a peace officer may issue a citation for an infraction
to the parent to appear in court.
C. When a parent has previously been issued a citation for an infraction as set forth
in Subsection B, upon any subsequent violation by a parent of Section 9. 34. 030, a peace officer
may issue a citation for a misdemeanor to the parents of the juvenile to appear in court.
Ord. No. 2008- 30, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
Section 9. 34.050 Penalties
A. Any person convicted of an infraction for violation of Sections 9. 34.020.A or
9. 34.030 may be punished by a fine not exceeding $ 250 or by a requirement to perform county,
city, or school- approved work projects or community service or both. If required to perform a
project, the total time for performance shall not exceed 20 hours over a period not to exceed 60
days, during times other than a juvenile' s hours of school attendance or a juvenile or parent's
hours of employment.
B. Any parent convicted of a misdemeanor violation of Section 9. 34.030 may be
punished by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of time not exceeding six months, or
by a fine not exceeding $ 1, 000 or by both.
Ord. No. 2008- 30, Enacted, 12/ 9/ 08)
9. 34 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9.36
Spectators Prohibited at Illegal Speed Contests or Exhibitions of Speed
Sections:
9. 36. 010 Purpose
9. 36. 020 Definitions
9. 36. 030 Spectator at Illegal Speed Contest or Exhibition of Speed - Violation
9. 36. 040 Relevant Circumstances to Prove a Violation
9. 36.050 Admissibility of Prior Acts
Section 9. 36.010 Purpose
The City Council for the City of Vista finds and declares that pursuant to California
Vehicle Code Section 23109, motor vehicle speed contests and exhibitions of speed conducted
on public streets and highways are illegal. Motor vehicle speed contests and exhibitions of
speed are commonly known as street races or drag races.
Streets within the county of San Diego have been the site of continuing and escalating
illegal street racing over the past several years. Such street racing threatens the health and
safety of the public, interferes with pedestrian and vehicular traffic, creates a public nuisance,
and interferes with the right of private business owners to enjoy the use of their property.
Illegal street racers accelerate to high speeds without regard to oncoming traffic,
pedestrians, or vehicles parked or moving nearby. Traffic accidents, property crimes, and calls
for police service have increased dramatically where these illegal activities occur.
In most cases, illegal street races attract hundreds of spectators. The mere presence of
spectators at these events fuels the illegal street racing and creates an environment in which
these activities can flourish. Specifically, racers and spectators gather late at night and in the
early morning hours, blocking the streets and sidewalks to traffic, forming a racetrack area,
placing bets, and otherwise encouraging, aiding and abetting the racing process.
This chapter makes evidence of specified prior acts admissible to show the propensity of
the defendant to be present at or attend illegal street races, if the prior act or acts occurred
within three years of the presently charged offense.
This chapter is adopted to prohibit spectators at illegal street races with the aim of
significantly curbing this criminal activity. The chapter targets a very clear, limited population
and gives proper notice to citizens as to what activities are lawful and what activities are
unlawful. In discouraging spectators, the act of organizing and participating in illegal street races
will be discouraged.
Ord. No. 2003- 22, Enacted, 09/ 09/ 03)
Section 9. 36.020 Definitions
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined by
or given in the law, except as otherwise defined in this section.
Illegal motor vehicle speed contest" or " illegal exhibition of speed" means any
speed contest or exhibition of speed which is commonly known as drag racing and referred to
in California Vehicle Code Sections 23109(a) and 23109(c).
Preparations for the illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed"
include, but are not limited to, situations in which: ( 1) a group of motor vehicles or individuals
has arrived at a location for the purpose of participating in or being spectators at the event; ( 2)
a group of individuals has lined one or both sides of a public street or highway for the purpose
9. 36 ( 1) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
of participating in or being a spectator at the event; ( 3) a group of individuals has gathered on
private property open to the general public without the consent of the owner, operator, or agent
thereof for the purpose of participating in or being a spectator at the event; ( 4) one or more
individuals has impeded the free public use of a public street or highway by actions, words, or
physical barriers for the purpose of conducting the event; ( 5) two or more vehicles have lined
up with motors running for an illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed; ( 6) one
or more drivers is revving his engine or spinning his tires in preparation for the event; ( 7) an
individual is stationed at or new one or more motor vehicles serving as a race starter.
Spectator" means any individual who is present at an illegal motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed, or at a location where preparations are being made for such
activities, for the purpose of viewing, observing, watching, or witnessing the event as it
progresses. Spectator includes any individual at the location of the event without regard to
whether the individual arrived at the event by driving a vehicle, riding as a passenger in a
vehicle, walking, or arriving by some other means.
Ord. No. 2003- 22, Enacted, 09/ 09/ 03)
Section 9. 36.030 Spectator at Illegal Speed Contest or Exhibition of Speed - Violation
A. Any individual who is knowingly present as a spectator, either on a public
street or highway, or on private property open to the general public without the consent of the
owner, operator, or agent thereof, at an illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed is guilty of a misdemeanor.
B. Any individual who is knowingly present as a spectator, either on a public
street or highway, or on private property open to the general public without the consent of the
owner, operator, or agent thereof, where preparations are being made for an illegal motor
vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed is guilty of a misdemeanor.
C. An individual is present at the illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition
of speed if that individual is within 200 feet of the location of the event, or within 200 feet of
the location where preparations are being made for the event.
D. Exemption: Nothing in this section prohibits law enforcement officers or their
agents from being spectators at illegal motor vehicle speed contests or exhibitions of speed in
the course of their official duties.
Ord. No. 2003- 22, Enacted, 09/ 09/ 03)
Section 9. 36.040 Relevant Circumstances to Prove a Violation
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to prove a violation of Section 9. 36. 030,
admissible evidence may include, but is not limited to, any of the following:
A. The time of day.
B. The nature and description of the scene.
C. The number of people at the scene.
D. The location of the individual charged in relation to any individual or group
present at the scene.
E. The number and description of motor vehicles at the scene.
F. That the individual charged drove or was transported to the scene.
G. That the individual charged has previously participated in an illegal motor vehicle
speed contest or exhibition of speed.
H. That the individual charged has previously aided and abetted an illegal motor
vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed.
I. That the individual charged has previously attended an illegal motor vehicle
speed contest or exhibition of speed.
9. 36 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
J. That the individual charged previously was present where preparations were
being made for an illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed or where an illegal
motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed was in progress.
Ord. No. 2003- 22, Enacted, 09/ 09/ 03)
Section 9. 36.050 Admissibility of Prior Acts
The list set forth in Section 9. 36.040 is not exclusive. Evidence of prior acts may be
admissible to show the propensity of the defendant to be present at or attend an illegal motor
vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed, if the prior act or acts occurred within three years
of the presently charged offense. These prior acts may always be admissible to show
knowledge on the part of the defendant that a speed contest or exhibition of speed was taking
place at the time of the presently charged offense. Prior acts are not limited to those that
occurred within the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2003- 22, Enacted, 09/ 09/ 03)
9. 36 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 9.40
Crime Free Multifamily Housing
Sections:
Section 9.40.010 Purpose
Section 9.40.020 Definitions
Section 9.40.030 Noncompliant Multifamily Developments; Issuance and Delivery of
Finding of Noncompliance
Section 9.40.040 Application for CFM Certification; Issuance
Section 9.40.050 Operational Requirements Imposed on All Noncompliant Multifamily
Developments
Section 9.40.060 Schedules of Required Actions; Modifying Deadlines.
Section 9.40.070 Finding of Compliance
Section 9.40.080 Appeals
Section 9.40.090 Transfers of Noncompliant Multifamily Developments.
Section 9.40. 100 Program Fees; Fee Waivers
Section 9.40. 110 Enforcement; Remedies
Section 9.40. 120 Commencement and Sunset Dates for Chapter( Deleted)
Section 9.40.010 Findings; Purpose
A. The City Council finds that a multifamily development which repeatedly reaches or
exceeds its threshold for service calls to the Sheriff qualifies as a noncompliant multifamily
development under this Chapter and constitutes a public nuisance. In those instances the public
health, safety and welfare require the City to work with the property owner and property manager
of the multifamily development so that the nuisance conditions associated with the multifamily
development can be eliminated and damage to the public health, safety and welfare can be
abated. These actions should help control crime, contain blight, avoid reductions in property
values, curb negative impacts on economic activity, preserve a desirable quality of life within
Vista, and control long- term enforcement costs that would otherwise be imposed by the City.
B. In an effort to abate or reduce these nuisance conditions, the City Council intends
to establish a program by which noncompliant multifamily developments are required to adopt
practices and take actions to reduce or eliminate nuisance conditions and to improve the public
health, safety and welfare. As part of this program, the owner or manager of a noncompliant
multifamily development will be required to participate in a program to secure a crime free
multifamily certification, and to take the steps required to obtain a finding of compliance in
accordance with this Chapter.
C. The City Council intends to implement this Chapter in a manner which allows the
owner of a noncompliant multifamily development to continue uninterrupted rental operations
provided that the owner is making substantial progress toward obtaining a crime free multifamily
certification.
D. The City Council also intends that the program operate in a manner to regulate the
number of noncompliant multifamily developments which enter the program in a given six-month
period, thereby facilitating a manageable and well- operated program. To advance this aim, the
City Council intends that priority shall be given to those multifamily developments which appear
to be most damaging to the Vista community as determined by the compliance officer.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
9. 40 ( 1) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9.40.020 Definitions
The following terms, when used in this Chapter, shall have the meanings set forth below:
Actions which are not subject to appeal" means: ( 1) the issuance of an administrative
citation, which may be appealed as provided in Chapter 1. 13; ( 2) any administrative action to
declare a multifamily development or a condition associated with that development a public
nuisance pursuant to Chapter 8. 36, which may be reviewed as provided in that Chapter; ( 3) any
civil action filed in a California or Federal court, including any administrative tribunal, which shall
be heard or reviewed using the procedures particular to that court or tribunal; (4) any citation or
complaint for an infraction or misdemeanor under the Vista Municipal Code, the Vista
Development Code, or other law which shall be reviewed or adjudicated as otherwise provided
by applicable law; or ( 5) the issuance of a courtesy notice pursuant to Section 9. 030.A.
Administrative citation" means an administrative citation issued pursuant to Chapter
1. 13 with respect to the operations of, or physical conditions of, a multifamily development.
Available unit" means: ( 1) a unit which is vacant, uninhabited, or unoccupied; (2) a unit
on a month- to- month tenancy when it rolls over; and ( 3) a unit which had been or is under a term
lease upon expiration or extension of that term ( including conversion of the lease to a month- tomonth
tenancy).
CFM certification program" means the City-administered program established by this
Chapter under which a noncompliant multifamily development takes actions based on a schedule
of required actions with the aim of obtaining a finding of compliance.
CFM tenant meeting" means a periodic meeting held at the noncompliant multifamily
development to address the roll- out of the CFM certification program and its implementation with
respect to the noncompliant multifamily development and which is to be attended by tenants,
managers, the owner of the noncompliant multifamily development, as well as representatives of
the Sheriff and the City.
CFM tenant meeting rules and guidelines" means written rules and guidelines
prepared by the City Manager or designee which establish requirements for noticing, advertising,
and conducting CFM tenant meetings.
Crime free multifamily certification" or " CFM certification" means a certificate,
issued by the compliance officer to a noncompliant multifamily development pursuant to Section
9. 40. 040, after all certification actions for that development have been achieved and all notices of
violation have been corrected.
Compliance officer" means any person or persons designated by the City Manager to
assume the responsibilities assigned to a compliance officer pursuant to this Chapter.
Deliver" means providing a copy of a document to a property owner or manager through
one of the following means: ( 1) by actual personal delivery of the document to the property owner
and/ or property manager; ( 2) by posting the document on the premises of the multifamily
development, in a conspicuous location, addressed to the property owner and/ or property
manager; ( 3) by sending the document by email to the property owner or manager, provided its
receipt is actually acknowledged; or (4) by mailing the document to the property owner at: ( i) the
address of the multifamily development; ( ii) the owner's address contained in the last equalized
assessment roll; or ( iii) the address listed on the most recent business license for the multifamily
development on file with the City. Any delivery by mail shall be made by either first class mail
postage prepaid), or alternatively, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
Delivery date" means the earliest of the following for a document delivered by the City
of Vista: ( 1) the date the document is personally handed or delivered to that property owner or
property manager, as applicable; (2) the date on which the document is posted on the multifamily
development in a conspicuous place; ( 3) the date on which the document is deposited into the
United States postal service for delivery by first class mail ( postage prepaid) or by registered or
9. 40 ( 2) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
certified mail, return receipt requested for delivery to the property owner or property manager, as
applicable; or ( 4) the date the property owner or manager acknowledges receipt of a document
delivered by email or other means.
Determination" means any action or decision taken pursuant to this Chapter, except for
actions which are not subject to appeal.
Disputed determination" means any determination which has been timely appealed
pursuant to Section 9.40.080 and which is not final under this Chapter.
Excluded Call" means a call to the Sheriff's Department which, pursuant to written rules
adopted by the City Manager: ( 1) is not indicative of criminal or nuisance activity tied to a
multifamily development; and ( 2) is therefore not treated as a service call with respect to the
multifamily development for purposes of this Chapter.
File" means the date on which a document: ( 1) is personally delivered to the City Clerk,
as reflected by the stamp of the City Clerk or; (2) the date of the United States postmark on a
document mailed and actually received by the City Clerk.
Finding of compliance" means a written finding issued by a compliance officer pursuant
to Section 9.40. 070 after a noncompliant multifamily development has: ( 1) accomplished all
required actions; ( 2) received a CFM certification; and ( 3) operated with acceptable levels of
service calls for a 48- month period in accordance with paragraph A of Section 9. 40. 070.
Finding of noncompliance" means a written finding, issued in accordance with Section
9. 40. 030 determining that a multifamily development is a noncompliant multifamily development
which must participate in the program established by this Chapter until it has received a finding
of compliance pursuant to Section 9. 40. 070.
First-step appeal determination" means a determination made by a hearing officer
upon completion of a first-step appeal procedure pursuant to Section 9.40. 080.
Hearing officer" means a City employee or other person who reviews, administers and
issues a decision with respect to the one-step appeal procedure or the two-step appeal procedure,
as applicable, who has been assigned or appointed to that position by the City Manager.
Initial determination" means a determination made by a compliance officer upon
completion of a first-step appeal.
Lease" means any action by which a unit or a bed within a multifamily development is
leased, rented or otherwise made available for consideration of any sort to a person pursuant to
an oral, written or other arrangement executed, approved or accepted by a property owner or
property manager. The term " Lease" also includes any action by a property owner or property
manager to provide a person with occupancy rights to a unit ( or a bed or bedroom within a
multifamily development), if the property owner or property manager receives grant funds or
payments from third parties to defray the cost of providing housing to serve a targeted population
which includes such person ( such as the homeless, paroles, etc.).
Multifamily development" means any apartment, boarding house, transitional housing,
supportive housing, rental mobilehome park, or condominium development ( under a single
ownership) which has at least ten units, inclusive of any unit occupied by an on- site manager.
The term multifamily development excludes: ( 1) group homes for the developmentally disabled;
and ( 2) residential uses licensed or regulated by state or federal law to the extent those licenses
or regulations preempt application of this Chapter.
Noncompliant multifamily development" means any multifamily development which:
1) has been issued a final finding of noncompliance pursuant to Section 9. 40.030; and ( 2) has
not received a finding of compliance pursuant to Section 9. 40. 070.
Program Fee" means a fee, if any, set by resolution of the City Council pursuant to
Section 9.40. 100 which is charged to the property owner of a noncompliant multifamily
development and used to defray all or part of the costs of administering the CFM multifamily
program with respect to noncompliant multifamily developments.
9. 40 ( 3) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Property manager" means any person who or entity which: ( 1) is identified as a
manager for a multifamily development; ( 2) executes leases for units in the multifamily
development; ( 3) is authorized to terminate leases within the multifamily development; or
4) executes the functions, on behalf of a property owner, which are ordinarily performed by an
property manager. When the property manager is an entity, the term " property manager" also
includes the person or persons which the entity has selected, hired or employed to discharge the
functions of a property manager on behalf of the entity.
Property owner" means a person, trust, corporation, partnership or other entity which
owns at least a fifty percent (50%) interest in a multifamily development, whether such ownership
is direct or indirect. When a property owner is an entity, the term " property owner" also includes
the person who serves as the most senior executive officer for the entity.
Required action" means each action listed in a schedule of required actions ( including
those added to the schedule of required actions pursuant to a safety and compliance report
prepared pursuant to Section 9. 40.050. E).
Required action deadline" means the deadline for accomplishing each required action
as set forth in the schedule of required actions or the safety and compliance report, subject to
possible extension pursuant to Section 9.40. 060.
Review period" means any six- month period from January 1 through June 30 or July 1
through December 31, which begins on or after January 1, 2015.
Safety and compliance report" means the report listing required actions and setting
forth required action deadlines which is prepared pursuant to paragraph E of Section 9.40. 050.
Schedule of required actions" means a schedule, initially prepared by the compliance
officer pursuant to section 9. 040.030, listing the required actions ( inclusive of required action
deadlines) for a noncompliant multifamily development and which may be augmented or modified
by the safety and compliance report pursuant to Section 9.40. 050. E, or as provided in Section
9. 40. 060.
Service call" means a call to the Sheriff's Department, not including an excluded call, to
report suspicious or criminal activity, or to request assistance, where the address for the
multifamily development is used as the address for the incident based on the contents of a
computer aided dispatch ( CAD) record or similar report.
Service call threshold" means a whole or fractional number for a multifamily
development which equals 25% of the units within the development.
Substantial progress towards obtaining a CFM certification" means progress with
respect to a noncompliant multifamily development, measured as of a date, consisting of:
1) satisfactorily completing all required actions to be completed prior to such date; and ( 2) all
remedial actions required by a final administrative citation to be completed prior to such date.
Unit" means a dwelling unit, apartment unit, condominium unit, or mobilehome pad ( with
or without a mobilehome on it).
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.030 Noncompliant Multifamily Developments; Issuance and Delivery of
Finding of Noncompliance
A. Issuance. A compliance officer may issue a finding of noncompliance for a
multifamily development when the officer, based on an initial review, determines that the service
calls attributable to the multifamily development have equaled or exceeded the service call
threshold for the development during at least two six-month review periods occurring within an
18- month period. The compliance officer shall also endeavor to provide a courtesy notice to each
multifamily development which has exceeded its service call threshold for a review period, but
has not received a finding of noncompliance. The courtesy notice will advise the recipient that an
additional exceedance of the service call threshold could result in the issuance of a finding of
9. 40 ( 4) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
noncompliance, and obligate the multifamily development to participate in the CFM certification
program.
B. Contents of Finding of Noncompliance. The finding of noncompliance shall include:
1) the address of the multifamily development; ( 2) a statement advising the property owner or
property manager that the multifamily development has been determined to be a noncompliant
multifamily development; ( 3) a brief statement of the facts and reasons supporting that
determination; (4) a schedule of required actions ( which may be augmented or modified in
accordance with paragraph ( E) of Section 9.40.050) and Section 9. 40. 060) setting forth each
required action and each associated required action deadline; ( 5) a statement that the property
owner or property manager receiving the finding of noncompliance is legally obligated to submit
an application for a crime free multifamily certificate; ( 6) a form of application; and ( 7) a notice
regarding appeal rights. A copy of Chapter 9.40 of the Vista Municipal Code and the CFM tenant
meeting rules and guidelines shall be included with the finding of noncompliance.
C. Delivery. The compliance officer shall effect delivery of the finding of
noncompliance to property owner, and may effect delivery of it to the property manager if the
compliance officer chooses.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.040 Application for CFM Certification; Issuance
A. Obligation to Submit Application. Each property owner and/ or property manager
receiving a finding of noncompliance is legally obligated to submit to the City Clerk an application
for CFM certification, even if the property owner intends to appeal that determination. Such
application shall be filed no later than 7 city business days following delivery of the finding of
noncompliance.
B. Content of Application. The application shall be on a form provided by the City,
and shall include the location of the property; the name, address and telephone of the owner; the
name, address and 24- hour telephone number(s) of the manager or custodian of the property;
the owner's agent for service of process; and such other information as may be required by the
City.
C. Issuance of CFM certification. The compliance officer, with the consent of the
Sheriff, shall issue a CFM certification for a noncompliant multifamily development within 14 city
business days of the date on which the following have occurred: ( 1) each required action for that
development has been accomplished ( inclusive of all remedial actions required by a safety and
compliance report prepared pursuant to Section 9.40. 050. E); and ( 2) each remedial action
required by an administrative citation has been completed.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.050 Operational Requirements Imposed on All Noncompliant Multifamily
Developments
Until a finding of compliance is issued for a noncompliant multifamily development, the
following rules, prohibitions and obligations must be followed, observed, satisfied, and discharged
with respect to each noncompliant multifamily development, and by each property owner or
property manager associated with that noncompliant multifamily development.
A. Limitation on Rental of Units. No available unit shall be leased, nor shall any bed
or bedroom be leased, unless: ( 1) a crime free lease addendum has been executed by all adult
tenants who will reside in the unit or bedroom; ( 2) the property owner or property manager has
completed actions required pursuant to a schedule of required actions except for those with
deadlines on or after the date of the lease action; ; and (3) the property owner or property manager
9. 40 ( 5) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
has completed all remedial actions required pursuant to a final administrative citation except for
actions with deadlines occurring on or after the date of the lease action.
B. Form of Crime Free Lease Addendum. Each crime-free lease addendum shall be
in the following form, with only those changes approved in writing by the City Manager or
designee:
CRIME- FREE LEASE ADDENDUM
In addition to all other terms of the lease, Landlord and Tenant agree as follows:
The Tenant, any member of the Tenant's household, any guest or any other
person associated with the Tenant on the leased premises:
1) Shall not engage in any nuisance activity as defined in Civil Code
sections 3479 and 3480, any criminal activity, including drug- related criminal
activity, on the leased premises. " Drug related criminal activity" means the
illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or possession of any illegal or
controlled substance as defined in 21 U. S. C. 802.
2) Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate nuisance or criminal
activity.
3) Shall not allow the dwelling unit to be used for or to facilitate any
nuisance or criminal activity.
The Tenant, any member of the Tenant's household, any guests or any other
person associated with the Tenant shall not violate any civil law, ordinance or
statute in the use and occupancy of the premises, commit waste or nuisance,
annoy, molest or interfere with any other person on the property.
ANY ACTIVITY PROHIBITED BY THIS AGREEMENT SHALL CONSTITUTE
A SUBSTANTIAL VIOLATION OF THE LEASE, MATERIAL
NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE LEASE, AND GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION
OF TENANCY AND EVICTION.
C. Occupancy of Units in Violation of Crime Free Lease Addendum Prohibited. An
adult tenant, following the effective date of this ordinance, shall not move into a unit, bedroom, or
bed without first executing a crime free lease addendum. No lease occupancy of a unit shall be
permitted which would violate the terms of an executed crime free lease addendum.
D. Lease Addendum Tracking Sheet. Within 30 calendar days of the date on which a
finding of noncompliance becomes final, and every February 1 and August 1 thereafter, a lease
addendum tracking sheet shall be delivered to the compliance officer consisting of: ( 1) a listing of
each unit in the multifamily development; ( 2) whether the unit is occupied; ( 3) whether a current
and effective lease addendum has been executed for that unit; and (4) for each unit without a fully
executed lease addendum; ( a) an indication whether or not, in the prior six- month review period,
the lease for that unit either expired or rolled over; and ( b) the next date on which the lease for
that unit is set to expire or rollover. The preceding information shall be submitted using a form
created by the City, or if no such form exists, using a form prepared by the property owner or
property manager. Until a finding of compliance has been issued, a copy of each effective lease
addendum shall be maintained by the property owner and shall be available for inspection by the
City upon 48 hours advance notice, but not more often than on three occasions during any three
month period.
E. Safety and Compliance Report; Associated Inspections. With at least 48 hours
advance notice, the property owner and property manager shall permit the Sheriff Department
and the City to complete a safety and code compliance inspection of all common areas within the
noncompliant multifamily development. Following the inspection, the compliance officer ( with
9. 40 ( 6) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
input of the Sheriff) will produce a safety and compliance report that identifies: ( 1) code violations
present at the noncompliant multifamily development which require correction or remediation;
2) other physical changes, modifications, or improvements to the property needed or useful in
creating an environment designed to reasonably minimize the opportunity for crime; ( 3) changes
in the operations of the noncompliant multifamily development which will minimize the opportunity
for crime, and ( 4) the deadline for completing or accomplishing each of those changes,
corrections, modifications or improvements. Following issuance of the safety and compliance
report: ( 1) each action, change or modification identified in that report shall constitute a required
action under the schedule of required actions; and ( 2) each associated deadline shall constitute
a required action deadline for purposes of the schedule of required actions.
F. Completing Required and Remedial Actions by Deadlines. Each required action
must be accomplished by its required action deadline; and ( 2) each remedial or corrective action
required by a final administrative citation must be completed by the compliance deadline set by
the citation.
G. Inspections to Verify Satisfaction of Required or Remedial Actions. Upon 48 hours
advance notice, the compliance officer shall be permitted to inspect those portions of the
multifamily development which the officer must reasonably view to confirm that all remedial
actions required by paragraph F, have been timely accomplished.
H. Signage. If the property owner does not reside on the premises of any multifamily
development, a notice stating the name and address of the owner, or the name and address of
his agent in charge of the multifamily development, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises.
I. Seminar. By the deadlines set in the schedule of required actions, all persons
administering, managing or controlling the operation of any noncompliant multifamily
development must: ( 1) attend and complete a crime free housing seminar, administered by the
Sheriffs Department or other provider selected by the City; and ( 2) repeat that training at least
once every two years thereafter.
J. CFM Tenant Meeting. An initial CFM tenant meeting satisfying the CFM tenant
meeting rules and guidelines shall take place by the date set forth in the schedule of required
actions. In accordance with the schedule of required actions, a draft plan to promote the meeting
shall be prepared by the property owner and property manager, submitted to the compliance
officer for comment, revised, and then implemented to promote the meeting. At minimum, the plan
shall provide that written notice of the meeting shall be delivered to each unit, and that attendees
at the meeting shall include the owner or owner's representative, senior managers for the
development, and representatives of the Sheriff and City. The management shall create a record
of adults attending the meeting ( evidenced by their signatures) which shall list the unit in which
each attending adult resides. If fewer than 25% of the units had adult tenants in attendance at the
meeting, the compliance officer, in his or her discretion may require the management to advertise
and hold a second meeting within 60 days of the initial meeting. Thereafter, CFM tenant meetings
shall be conducted annually.
K. Non- Retaliation. No action shall be taken to terminate a tenancy, increase the rent
for a tenancy, or to threaten punitive action concerning a tenancy based solely on a decision, by
a tenant or a tenant's invitee, to place a telephone call to the sheriff to report a crime or suspicious
activity.
L. Payment of Program Fee. The property owner shall cause to be paid, in a timely
manner, the full amount of the program fee( s) when due.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
9. 40 ( 7) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9.40.060 Schedules of Required Actions; Modifying Deadlines
A. Schedules of Required ActionsContent. A schedule of required actions shall be
included with each finding of noncompliance issued by the compliance officer. The schedule shall:
1) list each required action pertaining to a noncompliant multifamily development which must be
satisfied or completed as a precondition to the issuance of a CFM certification for that
development; and ( 2) a reasonable deadline for accomplishing each of those required actions.
The contents of the schedule of required actions shall ( by operation of law) be augmented or
modified to: ( 1) to include each new required action or required action deadline contained in a
safety and compliance report prepared pursuant to subsection 9. 40. 050. E; and ( 2) modification
in a required action deadline approved pursuant to paragraphs B through D of this Section. The
compliance officer is encouraged to prepare an updated and consolidated schedule of required
actions to reflect these changes, but those changes shall be effective whether or not an updated
and consolidated schedule is prepared.
B. Requests to Adjust Deadlines. After a finding of noncompliance becomes final, a
property owner or property manager may request that the City extend a certification action
deadline by submitting an application to extend a required action deadline to the City Clerk. The
request must demonstrate: (1) good cause for the extension; and ( 2) the property owner or
property manager has made substantial progress toward obtaining a CFM certification on behalf
of the noncomplying multifamily development.
C. Action on Requests to Adjust Deadlines. The compliance officer shall deny, partly
grant, fully grant, or conditionally grant the request and set forth his or her determination in writing
with a presentation of the facts and reasons for the determination. The resulting deadline
adjustment determination shall be delivered to the property owner and/ or property manager. Once
a request to extend a deadline has been finally denied, a further request to extend the same
deadline may not be processed.
D. Modifications by Compliance Officer. A compliance officer, in his or her sole
discretion, may unilaterally modify a required action deadline or work constituting a required
action, provided that the property owner and/ or property manager consents to the modification in
writing. Neither an action nor an inaction by the compliance officer under this paragraph is
appealable. Modifications proposed by the compliance officer shall be limited to changes which
will produce a more practicable implementation of the Chapter without impairing its objectives.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.070 Finding of Compliance
A. Issuing Finding of Compliance. A compliance officer shall issue a finding of
compliance within 14 city business days after the date that both of the following have occurred:
1) a CFM certification has been issued to the noncompliant multifamily development; and ( 2) a
period of 48 consecutive months have passed from the issuance of that certification during which
the multifamily development has operated without exceeding its service call threshold, unless that
exceedance is excused by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. The City Manager
or designee may excuse an exceedance on up to one occasion during a 24 month span, provided
that the property owner or property manager has been provided evidence which clearly and
convincingly demonstrates that: ( 1) the exceedance was due to unusual circumstances;
2) neither the property owner nor the property manager were in a position to reasonably avoid
the exceedance; and ( 3) the noncompliant multifamily development had been operated in a
responsible and diligent manner consistent with all requirements of this Chapter and sound
management practices which are encouraged as part of the CFM certification program.
B. Effect. When a noncompliant multifamily development has received a finding of
compliance, the multifamily development, shall be released of all obligations, duties and
9. 40 ( 8) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
limitations imposed by this Chapter until such future time, if at all, that a new finding of
noncompliance is issued for that multifamily development. However, all multifamily developments,
following completion of the CFM certification program are encouraged to voluntarily continue
participating in the crime free multifamily housing program.
C. Option for Owner to Request a Finding. A property owner may request that the City
issue a finding of compliance for noncompliant multifamily development if more than ten days
have passed since all preconditions to issuance of the finding were met. The property owner's
request should set forth all facts and reasons supporting the request. Thereafter, compliance
officer shall issue the finding of compliance or explain in writing why a finding of compliance has
not been issued.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.080 Appeals
A. Appealable Determinations. Each determination taken pursuant to this Chapter
may be appealed as follows.
B. First- Step Appeal Procedure. A property owner or manager may appeal an initial
determination under this Chapter by filing a complete appeal with the City Clerk no later than 7
city business days following the delivery date for that initial determination. If a timely and complete
appeal is not filed, the initial determination shall become final and non- reviewable.
C. Second- Step Appeal Procedure. Upon completing a first-step appeal procedure, a
property owner or manager may appeal the resulting first-step appeal determination by filing a
complete appeal with the City Clerk no later than 7 city business days following the delivery date
for that determination if( and only if) that determination involves one of the following: ( 1) a finding
of noncompliance issued pursuant to Section 9.40. 030.A and C; ( 2) a compliance order issued
pursuant to subsection 9. 40. 110. H requiring a property owner to stop leasing available units; or
3) a failure to issue a finding of compliance after receiving a legitimate request pursuant to
Section 9. 40. 070. C. If an appeal of a first-step appeal determination is not available under this
paragraph, or if is not filed in a timely and complete manner, the first-step appeal determination
shall become final and shall not be subject to further review.
D. Complete Appeal Applications. For purposes of this Section, an appeal application
is incomplete unless all of the following are satisfied: ( 1) the City-created form is used, or if none
exists, a form prepared by appellant is used; ( 2) the appeal fee is included with the application in
the amount set by City Council resolution; ( 3) the specific determination to be appealed is
identified; (4) the result sought by appellant on appeal is described; ( 5) all reasons, including legal
reasons, for the result being sought are presented; and ( 6) all evidence supporting the desired
result are identified. In addition, the appellant should submit with the application ( i) any additional
evidence ( not in the record) which the appellant wants the hearing officer to consider; and ( ii) any
materials or information that may be necessary to establish a foundation for expert opinions
offered or other evidence submitted.
E. Rules for Processing Appeals. If a timely and complete appeal if filed in
accordance with this Section, the appeal shall be conducted using the following procedures
1. The City Clerk shall provide the compliance officer with the appeal
application, including any exhibits. No later than 14 city business days after the appeal application
is filed, the compliance officer may submit to the City Clerk additional materials presenting
reasons for the disputed determination and additional relevant evidence.
2. If such a submission is received by the City Clerk, a copy shall be made
available for review by the appellant at the offices of the City Clerk, and ( at the option of the City
Clerk) may be provided by email or other means to the appellant if practicable. After being notified
of an additional submission by the compliance officer, the appellant shall have five days in which
to file a written response with the City Clerk.
9. 40 ( 9) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
3 If the hearing officer determines that it might be productive, the hearing
officer can invite the appellant and the compliance officer( or the compliance officer's designee) to
participate in an informal meeting to determine if a mutually acceptable resolution of the appeal
may be possible. The meeting shall not be used present any new arguments or any new evidence.
If the informal meeting achieves a mutually acceptable resolution, the resulting resolution shall be
formalized into a stipulated decision on appeal which shall be signed by the appellant, compliance
officer, and hearing officer. Thereafter the stipulated decision shall be binding and must be
followed by the property owner and manager.
4. If a mutually acceptable resolution is not achieved under the preceding
subparagraph, the hearing officer shall consider the case file, all submitted evidence, and all
relevant arguments. Based on those submissions ( but not on the discussions occurring during
the informal meeting, if any), the hearing officer shall issue a written decision on appeal which
presents the evidentiary determinations, reasons and conclusions supporting the decision on
appeal. That written decision shall be provided to the City Clerk and the appellant. Thereafter, it
shall be binding, final, and non- reviewable.
F. Modification of Rules. These procedures described in paragraph E may be
supplemented, modified or adjusted to promote fair and efficient hearings by either City Manager
or hearing officer with advance written notice to the parties.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40.090 Transfers of Noncompliant Multifamily developments
No property owner shall transfer a noncompliant multifamily development or a multifamily
development which has received a finding of noncompliance ( whether or not final) unless the
owner first: ( 1) informs the prospective buyer that the multifamily development has been
designated a noncompliant multifamily development or has been issued a finding of
noncompliance pursuant to this Chapter; ( 2) provides the prospective buyer with the finding of
noncompliance including the schedule of required actions; and ( 3) provides the City, with an
executed document, in which the prospective buyer: (a) acknowledges that the multifamily
development has been identified by the City as a noncompliant multifamily development pursuant
to Chapter 9.40 of the Vista Municipal Code; and ( b) the multifamily development, upon
acquisition, shall continue to retain its classification as a noncompliant multifamily development
subject to all terms and obligations this Chapter, including the obligation to take all required
actions contained in the schedule of required actions on or before the required action deadline.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40. 100 Program Fee; Appeal Fees; Fee Waivers
A. Program Fee. By resolution, the City Council may establish a program fee to be
paid by each noncompliant multifamily development to defray the costs of administering the CFM
certification program. The program fee may be set using any lawful method selected by the City
Council, including without limitation: ( 1) a fee which varies based according to a sliding scale
based on the units within the multifamily development; and ( 2) a fee which is payable by the
ownership of a multifamily development, on an annual or other periodic basis, for the time period
that the multifamily development participates in the CFM certification program.
B. Appeal Fee. By resolution, the City Council may establish an appeal fee to be paid
by a property owner seeking to appeal a determination under this Chapter.
C. Fee Waivers. If a property owner claims an economic hardship will result from
paying a program fee or appeal fee, the property owner may apply for a waiver of the fee on forms
provided by the City Clerk for that purpose. The forms shall be executed under penalty of perjury
and contain a declaration as to the truthfulness and correctness of the information contained
9. 40 ( 10) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
therein. If the City Clerk determines that a sufficient showing has been made to support the waiver,
the City Clerk shall waive the fee. A sufficient showing requires that the owner demonstrate that
payment of the fee would pose a serious economic hardship on the property owner.
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
Section 9.40. 110 Enforcement; Remedies
A. Violations of this Code. A violation of this Chapter occurs any time: ( 1) a
requirement of this Chapter is not satisfied or is violated; ( 2) a required action is not achieved by
its required action deadline; ( 3) a correction required by a final administrative citation is not
accomplished by the deadline set in the citation; ( 4) each required action described in compliance
order is not accomplished by the deadline and in the manner required by that compliance order;
or ( 5) a person required to obtain a crime- free lease addendum intentionally allows a tenant or
other person to occupy a bed or unit within a multifamily development in material violation of the
crime-free lease addendum required by this Chapter.
B. Separate Violations. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
constitutes a separate violation of this Code which is enforceable in accordance with the terms of
this Section.
C. Remedies Cumulative. Each remedy allowed by this Chapter is a cumulative
remedy and is not exclusive of any other remedy available under this Chapter or other legal
authority, including any federal, state, or local authority.
D. Enforcement by Administrative Penalty. Any violation of this Chapter may be
enforced through the issuance of administrative citations in accordance with Chapter 1. 13 of the
Vista Municipal Code.
E. Nuisance. Any violation of this Chapter is deemed to be a public nuisance
enforceable pursuant to Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista Municipal Code.
F. Misdemeanor. Any violation of this Chapter is a misdemeanor and may be
enforced pursuant to Chapter 1. 16 of the Vista Municipal Code.
G. Civil Actions. In addition to any other remedies provided in this Chapter, any
violation of this section may be enforced by civil action brought by the City. In any such action,
the City may seek, without limitation, and the court shall grant, as appropriate, any or all of the
following remedies:
1. Injunctive relief;
2. Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation, inspection, or
monitoring survey which led to the establishment of the violation, and for the reasonable costs of
preparing and bringing legal action under this subsection;
3. Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse effects
resulting from the violation;
4. Payment or reimbursement of any governmental fines or penalties imposed
on the City as a result of the violation.
5. Civil penalties, not to exceed $ 2, 500 per violation for each day during which
any violation of any provision of this Chapter is committed, continued, permitted or maintained by
such person( s).
H. Compliance Order. In addition to or instead of initiating an enforcement action
under paragraphs D through G, the City or compliance officer may issue a written compliance
order describing any violation( s) of this Code, setting a date or dates for correcting or remedying
such violation( s), and specifying ( if appropriate) the means for remedying the violation( s). The
issuance of a compliance order shall not prevent the City from concurrently or thereafter taking
any enforcement action described in paragraphs D through G, including during any period that an
appeal involving the compliance order may be pending under Section 9. 40. 080."
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16)
9. 40 ( 11) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 9.40. 120 Commencement and Sunset Dates for Chapter
Ord. No. 2016- 9, Enacted, 8/ 9/ 16; Ord. No. 2018- 5, Amended, 5/ 8/ 18; Ord. No. 2020- 13, Deleted, 9/ 8/ 20)
9. 40 ( 12) Vista 10/ 09/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 04
General Provisions
Sections:
10. 04.010 Ordinance Adopted
10. 04.020 Definitions
Section 10. 04.010 Ordinance Adopted
There is established a traffic ordinance of the city, which is known and may be cited as the
Uniform Traffic Ordinance of the City of Vista."
Prior Code Ch. 18 ( part); Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 04.020 Definitions
The following words and phrases when used in this title and for the purpose of this title
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section. Whenever any words or phrases
used in this title are not defined, but are defined in the Vehicle Code of the state of California and
amendments thereto, such definitions shall apply:
Coach" means any motor bus, motor coach, trackless trolley or passenger stage used
as a common carrier of passengers.
Council" means the City Council.
Curb" means the lateral boundary of the roadway, whether such curb be marked by
curbing construction, or not so marked; the word " curb" as used in this title does not include the
line dividing the roadway of a street from parking strips in the center of a street, nor from tracks or
rights- of-way of public utility companies.
Divisional island" means an island located in the roadway and separating opposing or
conflicting streams of traffic.
Holidays" means all those days upon which the City municipal offices are closed in
accordance with the personnel rules of the City adopted pursuant to Section 2. 72. 040 of this code.
Loading zone" means the space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
Official time standard" means, when certain hours are named in this title, standard time
or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the City.
Parking meter" means a mechanical device installed within or upon the curb or sidewalk
area, immediately adjacent to a parking space, for the purpose of controlling the period of time
occupancy of such parking meter space by any vehicle.
Parkway" means that portion of a street other than a roadway or sidewalk.
Passenger loading zone" means the space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
Pedestrian" means any person afoot.
Police" or " police department" means the Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff of the County of
San Diego or the Sheriff's Department of the County of San Diego.
Police officer" means every officer of the police department of this City or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
Stop" means a complete cessation of movement.
Vehicle Code" means the Vehicle Code of the state of California.
Prior Code 18- 1; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 72- 12, Amended, 4/ 10/ 72; Ord. No. 76- 14,
Amended, 4/ 26/ 76)
10. 04 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 08
Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
Sections:
10. 08.010 Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials
10. 08.020 Unauthorized Persons Directing Traffic Prohibited
10. 08.030 Obedience to Officers
10. 08.040 Regulations Apply to Bicycles or Animals
10. 08.050 Obstruction or Interference with Officers
10. 08.060 Public Employees to Obey Traffic Regulations
10. 08.070 Exemption of Certain Vehicles
10. 08.080 Report of Damage to Certain Property
10. 08.090 When Vehicles May be Removed from Streets
Section 10. 08.010 Authority of Police and Fire Department Officials
Officers of the Police Department and such officers as are assigned by the Police Chief
are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, audible or other signal in conformance with
traffic laws, except that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department or members of the Fire Department may
direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions to the contrary contained
in this title or the Vehicle Code.
Prior Code 18- 5; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.020 Unauthorized Persons Directing Traffic Prohibited
No person other than an officer of the Police Department or members of the Fire
Department or a person authorized by the Police Department or a person authorized by law shall
direct or attempt to direct traffic by voice, hand or other signal, except that persons may operate,
when and as provided in this title, any mechanical pushbutton signal erected by order of the City
Traffic Engineer.
Prior Code 18- 6; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.030 Obedience to Officers
No person shall fail or refuse to comply with or to perform any act forbidden by any
lawful order, signal or direction of a traffic or police officer, or a member of the Fire Department,
or a person authorized by the Sheriff or by law.
Prior Code 18- 7; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.040 Regulations Apply to Bicycles or Animals
Every person riding a bicycle or riding or driving an animal upon a highway has all of the
rights and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except
those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
Prior Code 18- 8; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 08 ( 1) Vista 4/4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 08.050 Obstruction or Interference with Officers
No person shall interfere with or obstruct in any way any police officer or other officer or
employee of this City in their enforcement of the provisions of this title. The removal, obliteration
or concealment of any chalk mark or other distinguishing mark used by any police officer or other
employee or officer of this City in connection with the enforcement of parking regulations of this
title shall, if done for the purpose of evading the provisions of this title, constitute such
interference or obstruction.
Prior Code 18- 9; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.060 Public Employees to Obey Traffic Regulations
The provisions of this title apply to the operator of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state, any county or city, and it is unlawful for any
such operator to violate any of the provisions of this title except as otherwise permitted in this
title or by the Vehicle Code.
Prior Code 18- 10; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.070 Exemption of Certain Vehicles
A. The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing of
vehicles do not apply to vehicles operated by the police or Fire Department, any public
ambulance or any public utility vehicle or any private ambulance, which public utility vehicle or
private ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle
mentioned in this section is operated in the manner specified by the Vehicle Code in response to
an emergency call.
B. The exemptions set forth in Subsection A of this section do not, however, relieve
the operator of any such vehicle from the obligation to exercise due care for the safety of others
or the consequences of his willful disregard of the safety of others.
C. The provisions of this title regulating the parking or standing of vehicles does not
apply to any vehicle of a City department or public utility while necessarily in use for
construction or repair work or any vehicle owned or operated by the United States Post Office
Department while in use for the collection, transportation or delivery of United States mail.
Prior Code 18- 11; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 08.080 Report of Damage to Certain Property
A. The operator of a vehicle or the person in charge of any animal involved in any
accident resulting in damage to any property publicly owned or owned by a public utility, including,
but not limited to, any fire hydrant, parking meter, lighting post, telephone pole, electric light or
power pole, or resulting in damage to any tree, traffic- control device or other property of a like
nature located in or along any street, shall within 24 hours after such accident make a written
report of such accident to the Police Department of this City.
B. Every such report shall state the time when and the place where the accident took
place, the name and address of the person owning and of the person operating or in charge of
such vehicle or animal, the license number of every such vehicle, and shall briefly describe the
property damage in such accident.
C. The operator of any vehicle involved in an accident is not subject to the
requirements or penalties of this section of and during the time he is physically incapable of
making a report, but in such event he shall make a report as required in Subsection A of this
section within 24 hours after regaining the ability to make such report.
Prior Code 18- 12; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 08 ( 2) Vista 4/4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 08.090 When Vehicles May be Removed from Streets
Any regularly employed and salaried police officer or Sheriff or any Code Enforcement or
parking control officer of this City may remove or cause to be removed:
A. Any vehicle that has been parked or left standing upon a street or highway for 72
or more hours.
B. Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway, when such
parking or standing is prohibited by ordinance or resolution of this City and signs are posted giving
notice of such removal. No vehicle may be removed unless signs are posted giving notice of
removal.
C. Any vehicle which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway where the
use of such street or highway or a portion thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or
construction of the street or highway or for the installation of underground utilities or where the use
of the street or highway or any portion thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the normal
flow of traffic or where the use of the street or highway or any portion thereof is necessary for the
movement of equipment, articles or structures of unusual size, and the parking of such vehicle
would prohibit or interfere with such use or movement; provided, that signs giving notice that such
vehicle may be removed are erected or placed at least 24 hours prior to the effective time of such
prohibited parking.
D. Any vehicle registered in a foreign jurisdiction or without a current California
registration which is parked or left standing upon a street or highway and for which five or more
notices of parking violation have been issued over a period of five days, and for which the owner
or person in control of the vehicle has not responded. The vehicle may be impounded until that
person furnishes to the impounding law enforcement agency evidence of his identity and an
address within this state at which he can be located and satisfactory evidence that bail has been
deposited for all notices of parking violation issued for the vehicle. A notice of parking violation
issued to such a vehicle shall be accompanied by a warning that repeated violations may result
in the impounding of the vehicle;
E. Any vehicle which is found illegally parked and for which there are no license
plates or other evidence of registration displayed. The vehicle may be impounded until the
owner or person in control of the vehicle furnishes the impounding law enforcement agency
evidence of his identity and an address within this state at which he can be located;
F. Any vehicle which any Code Enforcement or parking control officer of the City
has reasonable grounds to believe is an abandoned vehicle, as determined pursuant to Section
22523 of the California Vehicle Code, may be removed by him or her from a public street or
highway only after he or she has mailed or personally delivered a written report identifying the
vehicle and its location to the office of the Department of California Highway Patrol located
nearest to the vehicle.
Prior Code 18- 13; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 84- 13, Amended, 3/ 12/ 84)
10. 08 ( 3) Vista 4/4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 12
Traffic-Control Devices
Sections:
10. 12. 010 Authority to Install Devices
10. 12. 020 Signs Required for Enforcement Purposes
10. 12. 030 Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices
10. 12. 040 Installation of Traffic Signals
10. 12. 050 Lane Marking
10. 12. 060 Distinctive Roadway Markings
10. 12. 070 Removal, Relocation and Discontinuance of Devices
10. 12. 080 Hours of Operation
10. 12. 090 Unauthorized Painting of Curbs
10. 12. 100 Placement of Turning Markers
10. 12. 110 Placement of Restricted Turn Signs
10. 12. 120 Signal Controlled Intersections - Right Turns
10. 12. 130 Obstruction of Visibility at Intersections
Section 10. 12.010 Authority to Install Devices
A. The City Traffic Engineer shall have the power and duty to place and maintain or
cause to be placed and maintained official traffic-control devices in accordance with this Chapter.
B. Whenever the Vehicle Code requires, for the effectiveness of any provision
thereof, that traffic-control devices be installed to give notice to the public of the application of
such law, the City Traffic Engineer is authorized to install or cause to be installed the necessary
devices subject to any limitations or restrictions set forth in the law applicable thereto.
C. The City Traffic Engineer may also place and maintain or cause to place and
maintain such additional traffic-control devices as he may deem necessary or proper to regulate
traffic or to guide or warn traffic, but he shall make such determination only upon the basis of
traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations and in accordance with such standards,
limitations, and rules as may be set forth in this title and as may be determined by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code 18- 14; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 12. 020 Signs Required for Enforcement Purposes
No provision of the Vehicle Code or of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator unless appropriate legible signs are in place giving notice of
such provisions of the traffic laws.
Prior Code 18- 15; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 12. 030 Obedience to Traffic-Control Devices
The operator of any vehicle or train shall obey the instructions of any official trafficcontrol
device placed in accordance with this title unless otherwise directed by a police officer or
other authorized person, subject to the exceptions granted the operator of an authorized
emergency vehicle when responding to emergency calls.
Prior Code 18- 16; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 12 ( l) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 12. 040 Installation of Traffic Signals
A. The City Traffic Engineer is directed to install, subject to City Council approval,
and maintain official traffic signals at those intersections and other places where traffic
conditions are such as to require that the flow of traffic be alternately interrupted and released in
order to prevent or relieve traffic congestion or to protect life or property from exceptional hazard.
B. The City Traffic Engineer shall ascertain and determine the locations where such
signals are recommended by field investigation, traffic counts and other traffic information as
may be pertinent and therefrom his determinations shall be made in accordance with those
traffic engineering and safety standards and instructions set forth in the California Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices issued by the State of California Department of Transportation
Caltrans).
C. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer installs and maintains an official traffic signal
at any intersection, he shall likewise erect and maintain at such intersection street name signs
clearly visible to traffic approaching from all directions unless such street name signs have
previously been placed and are maintained at any such intersection.
Prior Code 18- 17; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 12. 050 Lane Marking
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to mark center lines and lane lines upon the
surface of the roadway to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles and may place signs
temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of
the center line of the highway.
Prior Code 18- 18; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 12. 060 Distinctive Roadway Markings
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place and maintain distinctive roadway
markings as described in the Vehicle Code on those streets or parts of streets where the
volume of traffic or the vertical or other curvature of the roadway renders it hazardous to drive
on the left side of such marking or signs and markings. Such marking or signs and markings
have the same effect as similar markings placed by the State Department of Public Works
pursuant to provisions of the Vehicle Code.
Prior Code 18- 19; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 12. 070 Removal, Relocation and Discontinuance of Devices
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to remove, relocate or discontinue the operation
of any traffic-control device, other than traffic signals and stop signs, the removal of which
requires a City Council Resolution, not specifically required by the Vehicle Code or this title
whenever he determines in any particular case that the conditions which warranted or required
the installation no longer exist.
Prior Code 18- 20; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 12. 080 Hours of Operation
The City Traffic Engineer shall determine the hours and days during which any trafficcontrol
device is in operation or is in effect, except in those cases where such hours or days are
specified in this title or otherwise determined by resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code 18- 21; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 12 ( 2) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 12. 090 Unauthorized Painting of Curbs
Prior Code 18- 22; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 91- 38, Repealed, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 12. 100 Placement of Turning Markers
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place official traffic-control devices within or
adjacent to intersections and indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such
intersections, and the City Traffic Engineer is authorized to locate and indicate more than one
lane of traffic from which drivers of vehicles may make right or left turns, and the course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
Prior Code 18- 23; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 12. 110 Placement of Restricted Turn Signs
Subject to approval by resolution of the City Council the City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right
and/ or left turn. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine intersections and roadway
segments where drivers of vehicles shall not make U- turns. The City Traffic Engineer shall place
proper signs at such intersections and roadway segments. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the
same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
Prior Code 18- 24; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 12. 120 Signal Controlled Intersections - Right Turns
A. No driver of a vehicle shall make a right turn against a red or stop signal at any
intersection which is sign- posted giving notice of such restriction, as provided in Subsection B of
this section.
B. The City Traffic Engineer shall post appropriate signs giving effect to this section
where he determines that the making of right turns against a traffic signal' s " stop" indication would
seriously interfere with the safe and orderly flow of traffic.
Prior Code 18- 25; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 12. 130 Obstruction of Visibility at Intersections
Whenever the City Traffic Engineer finds that any hedge, shrubbery, tree or any other
structure or object obstructs the view of any intersection, or any traffic upon the streets
approaching such intersection, he shall cause the hedge, shrubbery, tree or other structure or
object to be immediately removed or reduced in height or width.
Prior Code 18- 71; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
10. 12 ( 3) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 14
Painting of Curbs
Sections:
10. 14.010 Unauthorized Painting of Streets or Curbs
10. 14.020 Applications
10. 14.030 Denial and Issuance
10. 14.040 Suspension or Revocation of Permit - Notice - Hearing
10. 14.050 Grounds for Revocation
10. 14.060 Appealing
10. 14.070 Violation - Penalty
10. 14.080 Regulations
Section 10. 14.010 Unauthorized Painting of Streets or Curbs
No person, unless authorized by the City Public Works Director, by special temporary
permit, shall paint any street or curb surface in any manner. Curb house numbers painted on the
curb are included in the general prohibition.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.020 Applications
Applications for a special temporary street or curb painting permit shall be filed with the
Director of Public Works or the Director' s designee and shall contain the following:
A. The individual and business name, address, and telephone number of the permit
applicant. If the applicant is under 18 years of age, there shall be included the name, address,
telephone number and signature of a person 18 years of age or older who assumes all
responsibility for activities undertaken pursuant to any permit which may be issued.
B. An agreement to indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, employees and
agents from any and all liability for personal injury or property damage resulting from the
applicant' s activity pursuant to the permit.
C. A certificate of insurance, in form and amount determined by the City' s Risk
Manager, demonstrating that the applicant has in for liability insurance against injury to persons
and damage to property arising from activities undertaking pursuant to the permit.
D. Such other information as may be requested by the Director.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.030 Denial and Issuance
A. A special temporary street or curb painting permit shall not be issued if the Director
finds that the application is incomplete or contains a Use statement.
B. Special street or curb painting temporary permits shall be subject to renewal
every six months following the date of issuance unless sooner suspended or revoked. Renewal
may be denied for any purpose which is grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
permit.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
10. 14 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 14.040 Suspension or Revocation of Permit - Notice - Hearing
A. Any curb painting permit under this chapter is subject to suspension or
revocation by the Public Works Director for violation of any provision of this chapter or for any
grounds that would warrant the denial of the issuance of such permit or for any grounds set forth
in Section 10. 14. 030.
B. Prior to the suspension or revocation of any permit issued under this chapter, the
permittee is entitled to a hearing held before the Public Works Director, at which time evidence
will be received for the purpose of determining whether or not such permit will be suspended or
revoked or whether the permit may be retained. Notice of such hearing shall be given in writing
and served at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall state the grounds
of the complaint against the holder of such license and shall designate the time and place where
such hearing shall be held. Such notice shall be served upon the license holder by delivering
the same personally or by leaving such notice at the place of business or residence of the
license holder in the custody of a person of suitable age and discretion. In the event the license
holder cannot be found and the service of such notice cannot be otherwise made in a manner
provided in this section, a copy of such notice shall be mailed, registered mail, postage fully
prepaid, addressed to the license holder at his or her place of business or residence at least 15
days prior to the date of such hearing.
C. In the event the permit is suspended or revoked, the notification and reasons for
such suspension or revocation shall be set forth in writing and sent to the permittee by means of
registered or certified mail or hand delivered.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.050 Grounds for Revocation
The Director may revoke any special temporary permit issued whenever the Director
finds that any activity authorized by the permit is being conducted, maintained or carried on in a
manner contrary to, or in violation of, any state law, or any other provision of the City code, or
any condition imposed upon the granting of the permit, or in a manner which constitutes a
nuisance, or is injurious to the public welfare.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.060 Appealing
The permittee can appeal the suspension or revocation of the special temporary street
or curb painting permit to the City Council within 15 days of the suspension or revocation.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.070 Violation- Penalty
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable, and violations are punishable pursuant to
Chapter 1. 16 of this code. Chapter 1. 16 allows the City Manager, or his designee, to issue
citations for violations of certain sections of this code. Criminal prosecution shall not preclude nor
be precluded by abatement of the violation or violations.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
Section 10. 14.080 Regulations
A. Any person painting any street or curb surface in any manner, shall be in
accordance with regulations for painting streets or curbs as established by the Public Works
10. 14 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Director. A copy of the minimum standards shall be given to the person upon issuance of
application.
1. Area on curb is to be thoroughly cleaned before painting background color.
2. Three inch to four inch black numbers.
3. Five inch x 12 inch white background patch, plain or reflective.
4. Numbers are to be painted on the curb face near the driveway. A location
affording the greatest visibility from the street is the objective. In general, this will be adjacent to
driveway openings to minimize blockage by parked cars, on the face of vertical curbs and inclined
toward the street on rolled curbs. Unusual conditions or the preference of the resident for whom
the service is being performed may be considered.
5. Provide information daily to the Public Works Street Maintenance
Supervisor as to the location the painting will occur. Failure to keep City informed of work location
and activity will result in the agreement being revoked. Staff from Public Works will be spot
checking the operation.
B. It is unlawful for any person to paint any house numbers on any curb unless said
person has first obtained consent in writing from the property owner and a permit from the Public
Works Director or the Director' s designee.
C. It is unlawful for any person to request, demand, solicit or receive any payment,
compensation, donation or other consideration for the painting of house numbers on any curb
unless, prior to the painting, such person secures from the City of Vista, a business license, and
from the property owner in front of whose premises the number is painted written consent to paint
the curb and a written agreement to pay the amount requested, demanded, solicited or received.
D. No property owner or occupant of any property shall be liable for any payment,
compensation, donation, or other consideration relating to the painting of house numbers on curbs
in front of his or her premises unless the property owner agreed in writing prior to the painting to
make such payment.
E. Any writing which purports to be a billing for services rendered in connection with
the painting of house numbers on any curb shall contain on its face the text of Section 10. 14. 030
B and 10. 14. 050 A.
F. It is unlawful for any person to receive any payment, compensation, donation or
other consideration for the painting of house numbers on any curb before the painting has been
completed and inspected by the property owner.
G. Any person who seeks consent to paint house numbers on a curb or who
requests, demands, solicits or receives any payment, compensation, donation or other
consideration for the painting of house numbers shall give to or leave with each property owner
contacted a receipt or other document which sets forth the person' s name, address, telephone
number, and City curb painting permit number.
H. Each employee, agent, representative or contractor of a curb painting permittee
shall, at all times when engaged in activity covered by the permit, carry on his or her person and
display upon request a copy of the valid permit pursuant to which he or she is operating.
Ord. No. 91- 38, Enacted, 11/ 26/ 91)
10. 14 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 16
One-Way Streets and Alleys
Sections:
10. 16. 010 Placement of Signs
Section 10. 16.010 Placement of Signs
Whenever any ordinance or resolution of this City designates any one- way street or
alley, the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no
such regulations shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the
direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
Prior Code 18- 26; Ord. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 16 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.20
Stop Signs
Sections:
10. 20.010 Placement of Stop Signs
10. 20.020 Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building
Section 10. 20.010 Placement of Stop Signs
The City Traffic Engineer, subject to City Council approval by resolution or ordinance, may
erect and maintain stop signs at any intersection or location.
Prior Code 18- 27; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 20.020 Applicable Streets or Intersections
Prior Code 18- 29; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 20.020 Emerging from Alley, Driveway or Building
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway.
Prior Code 18- 28; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
10. 20 (l) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 24
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
Sections:
10. 24.010 Funeral Procession and Parades
10. 24.020 Clinging to Moving Vehicle
10. 24.030 Commercial Vehicles Using Private Driveways
10. 24.040 Riding or Driving on Sidewalk
10. 24.050 New Pavement and Markings
10. 24.060 Obedience to Barriers and Signs
10. 24.070 Traffic Obstructions at Intersections Prohibited
10. 24.080 Limited Access
10. 24.090 Heavy Machinery
Section 10. 24.010 Funeral Procession and Parades
No operator of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
procession or a parade, provided that such vehicles are conspicuously so designated. The
directing of all vehicles and traffic on any street over which such funeral procession or parade
wishes to pass is subject to the orders of the Police Department.
Prior Code 18- 30; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.020 Clinging to Moving Vehicle
No person shall attach himself with his hands, or to catch on, or hold on with his hands or
by other means, to any moving vehicle or train for the purpose of receiving motive power
therefrom.
Prior Code 18- 31; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.030 Commercial Vehicles Using Private Driveways
A. No person shall operate or drive a commercial vehicle in, on, or across any private
driveway approach or sidewalk area or the driveway itself without the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property.
B. For the purpose of this section, " commercial vehicle" means a vehicle having a
rated capacity in excess of one ton.
Prior Code 18- 32; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.040 Riding or Driving on Sidewalk
No person shall ride, drive, propel, or cause to be propelled any vehicle or animal across
or upon any sidewalk except over permanently constructed driveways and except when it is
necessary for any temporary purpose to drive a loaded vehicle across a sidewalk; provided, that
said sidewalk area is substantially protected by wooden planks two inches thick, and written
permission is previously obtained from the City Traffic Engineer. Such wooden planks are not
permitted to remain upon such sidewalk area during the hours from 5:00 p. m. to 7: 00 a. m.
Prior Code 18- 33; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 24 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 24.050 New Pavement and Markings
No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across any newly made
pavement or freshly painted markings in any street when a barrier sign, cone marker or other
warning device is in place warning persons not to drive over or across such pavement or
marking, or when any such device is in place indicating that the street or any portion thereof is
closed.
Prior Code 18- 34; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.060 Obedience to Barriers and Signs
No person, public utility or department in the City shall erect or place any barrier or sign
on any street, unless of a type approved by the City Traffic Engineer, or disobey the instructions,
remove, tamper with or destroy any barrier or sign lawfully placed on any street by any person,
public utility or by any department of this City.
Prior Code 18- 35; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.070 Traffic Obstructions at Intersections Prohibited
No operator of any vehicle shall enter any intersection or a marked crosswalk unless
there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
Prior Code 18- 36; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 24.080 Limited Access
No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway except at such
entrances and exits as are lawfully established.
Prior Code 18- 37; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.24.090 Heavy Machinery
No person shall operate over the city streets any vehicle, piece of equipment or
machinery which has lugs, cleats, flanges or other projections on the wheels or tracks. If the
tread of the track has projections or corrugations, a filler block may be placed on each section so
that a flat bearing surface will be in contact with the pavement at all times.
Prior Code 18- 73; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 24 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 28
Pedestrians
Sections:
10. 28.010 Pedestrian Crosswalks
10. 28.020 Pedestrians on Streets and Highways
10. 28.030 Coasters, Roller Skates and Similar Devices Prohibited
10. 28.040 Pedestrian Interference
Section 10. 28.010 Pedestrian Crosswalks
The City Traffic Engineer shall establish, designate and maintain crosswalks at
intersections and other places by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the
roadway in accordance with crosswalk placement policies approved by the City Council; provided,
however, that unless specifically approved by the City Council, no crosswalk shall be established
at other than an intersection unless such crosswalk is located at least 400 feet from any
intersection and in a block not less than 600 feet in length, and located as nearly as practicable in
the center of such block.
Prior Code 18- 38; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 73- 34, Amended, 8/ 13/ 73)
Section 10. 28.020 Pedestrians on Streets and Highways
A. No person shall stand on a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
B. No person shall stand on a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting the
watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or highway.
C. No pedestrian shall walk upon a roadway adjacent to a sidewalk or walkway, the
use of which is practicable, except for the purpose of lawfully crossing such roadway.
Prior Code 18- 38. 1, Ord. No. 73- 34, Amended, 8/ 13/ 73)
Section 10. 28.030 Coasters, Roller Skates and Similar Devices Prohibited
Prior Code 18- 38. 2, Ord. No. 76-44, Amended, 10/ 25/ 76; Ord. No. 88- 34, Amended, 9/ 12/ 88;
Ord. No. 91- 23, Amended, 09/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 98- 11, Repealed, 11/ 10/ 1998)
Section 10. 28.040 Pedestrian Interference
A. Definitions. The following definitions apply in this section:
Obstruct Pedestrian or Vehicular Traffic" means to walk, skateboard,
rollerskate, stand, sit, lie, or place an object in such a manner and with the intent to block passage
by another person or a vehicle, or to require another person or a driver of a vehicle to take
evasive action to avoid physical contact. Acts authorized as an exercise of one' s constitutional
right to picket or to legally protest, and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant to the Vista
Municipal Code, shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Public Place" means an area generally visible to public view and includes
alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks and streets open to
the general public, including those that serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
10. 28 ( l) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Prohibition
A person is guilty of pedestrian interference if, in a public place, he or she
intentionally obstructs pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
C. Violation - Penalty
Pedestrian interference shall be punishable in accordance with Chapter 1. 16 of
the Vista Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 91- 23, Enacted, 09/ 10/ 91)
10. 28 ( 2) Vista 4/ 4/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 32
Stopping, Standing, and Parking Generally
Sections:
10. 32.010 Application of Regulations
10. 32.020 Stopping or Standing in Parkways Prohibited
10. 32.030 Maintenance of No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas
10. 32.040 No Parking Areas
10. 32.050 Storage of Vehicles on Streets Prohibited
10. 32.055 Parking of Oversized Vehicles and Non- motorized Vehicles on Public Streets
10. 32.060 Authority to Remove Vehicles for Sale
10. 32.070 Repairing Vehicles on Public Streets
10. 32.080 Vehicle Repair Prohibited in Residential Zones - Exception
10. 32.090 Washing or Polishing Vehicles
10. 32. 100 Parking Adjacent to Schools
10. 32. 110 Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets
10. 32. 120 Parking on Grades
10. 32. 130 Parking for Commercial Purposes Prohibited - Exceptions
10. 32. 140 Emergency Parking Signs
10. 32. 150 Permitted Parking in Prohibited Areas
10. 32. 160 Civil Penalties; Administrative Fees
Section 10. 32.010 Application of Regulations
A. The provisions of this title prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking of a
vehicle apply at all times or at those times specified in this chapter, except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or official traffic-control device.
B. The provisions of this title imposing a time limit on standing or parking do not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions of the Vehicle
Code or the ordinances of this City prohibiting or limiting the standing or parking of vehicles in
specified places or at specified times.
Prior Code 18- 39; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32.020 Stopping or Standing in Parkways Prohibited
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within any parkway.
Prior Code 18- 40; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32.030 Maintenance of No Stopping Zones and No Parking Areas
A. Subject to approval by resolution of the City Council, the Traffic Engineer is
authorized to maintain, by appropriate signs or by paint upon the curb surface, all no stopping
zones, no parking areas, and restricted parking areas, as defined and described in this title.
B. When such curb markings or signs are in place no operator of any vehicle shall
stop, stand, or park such vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking or sign in violation of
any of the provisions of this title.
Prior Code 18- 41; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 32 ( l) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 32.040 No Parking Areas
No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand, park, or leave standing such vehicle in any
of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or other authorized officer, or traffic sign or
signal:
A. Within any divisional island unless authorized and clearly indicated with
appropriate signs or markings.
B. On either side of any street between the projected property lines of any public
walk, public steps, street, or thoroughfare terminating at such street, when such area is
indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.
C. In any area established by resolution of the City Council as a no parking area,
when such area is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon the curb surface.
D. Upon, along, or across any railway track, in such manner as to hinder, delay, or
obstruct the movement of any rail car traveling upon such track.
E. On any street or highway where the use of such street or highway or a portion
thereof is necessary for the cleaning, repair or construction of the street or highway or the
installation of underground utilities or where the use of the street or highway or any portion
thereof is authorized for a purpose other than the normal flow of traffic or where the use of the
street or highway or any portion thereof is necessary for the movement of equipment, articles or
structures of unusual size, and the parking of such vehicle would prohibit or interfere with such
use or movement; provided, that signs giving notice of such prohibited parking are erected or
placed at least 48 hours prior to the effective time of such prohibited parking.
F. At any place within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection ( in the central traffic
district or) in any business district when such place is indicated by appropriate signs or by red
paint upon the curb surface except that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop.
G. Within 20 feet of the approach to any traffic signal, boulevard stop sign, or official
electric flashing device, when such place is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon
the curb surface.
H. Upon any street within any business or residence district unless not less than
eight feet of the width of the paved or improved or main traveled portion of the directional traffic
lane adjoining such stopped, standing or parked vehicle is left clear and unobstructed for the
free passage of other vehicles.
I. At any place within 100 feet of a street intersection or a driveway serving a
multifamily, commercial, or industrial establishment, when determined by the City Traffic
Engineer to be necessary to provide adequate sight distance or for the safe and efficient
movement of traffic and when such place is indicated by appropriate signs or by red paint upon
the curb surface.
J. Along any street, or portion thereof, which has been determined by the City
Manager or his/ her designee to be necessary to perform street sweeping and when the Director
of Public Works or designee has designated such parking restriction by placement of
appropriate signs giving notice of the day or days and hours of the parking restriction.
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect and maintain signs or markings indicating
these no parking areas if he determines a recurring pattern of violations at a specific location
and that signs and markings will assist with enforcement of the regulations.
Prior Code 18- 42; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 76- 50, Amended, 11/ 22/ 76; Ord. 86- 10,
Amended, 3/ 11/ 86; Ord. No. 86- 34, Amended, 7/ 8/ 86; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 32.050 Storage of Vehicles on Streets Prohibited
A. No person who owns or has possession, custody, or control of any vehicle shall
10. 32 ( 2) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
park such vehicle upon any street or alley for more than a consecutive period of 72 hours. For
the purpose of this section, a vehicle shall be deemed to be left standing when such vehicle has
not been moved more than one- tenth of a mile ( 528 feet) under its own power ( for motor
vehicles) from its original stopped position.
B. Use during nighttime hours:
1. The City Traffic Engineer has authority to prohibit or restrict the parking or
standing of vehicles on certain streets or highways, or portions thereof, between the hours of
2: 00 a.m. and 6:00 a. m., to be designated by resolution.
2. The resolution relating to parking between the hours of 2: 00 a.m. and
6:00 a. m. may provide for a system of permits for the purpose of exempting, from the prohibition
or restriction of the resolution, handicapped persons and residents of high- density multiplefamily
dwelling areas or similar areas lacking adequate off-street parking facilities.
C. The City Traffic Engineer has authority to prohibit or restrict any vehicle which is
six feet or more in height ( including any load thereon) from parking within one hundred feet of
any intersection, during all hours of the day.
D. The City Traffic Engineer has authority to prohibit or restrict the stopping, parking
or standing of vehicles on certain streets or highways, or portions thereof, during certain hours
of the day, the hours and streets to be designated in an accompanying resolution.
E. No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any commercial
semi-trailer or commercial trailer shall park such trailer on any highway, street or alley within the
city limits unless such semi- trailer or trailer is, at all times while so parked, attached to a truck or
tractor capable of moving such trailer or semi- trailer in a normal manner upon the public streets
and highways.
F. No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of a non- commercial
trailer, shall park such vehicle, unattached upon any street or alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading and for no more than a consecutive period of 4 hours.
Prior Code 18- 43; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 81- 81, Amended, 12/ 28/ 81; Ord. No. 84- 15,
Amended, 3/ 26/ 84; Ord. No. 84- 48, Amended 11/ 13/ 84; Ord. No. 89- 34, Amended, 9/ 11/ 89; Ord. No.
2001- 7, Amended, 04/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2019- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 32.055 Parking of Oversized Vehicles and Non- motorized Vehicles on Public
Streets
A. Prohibition. Subject to the exceptions set forth in Subsection D, no person who
owns or has possession, custody or control of any oversized vehicle or non- motorized vehicle
not attached to a motor vehicle, as defined by the California Vehicle Code, shall park or leave
standing on any public street or alley.
B. Oversized Vehicle Defined. For the purpose of this section, " oversized vehicle"
shall mean any single vehicle or combination of said vehicle which exceeds 24 feet in length; 11
feet in height; or nine feet in width, or any single vehicle or combination of said vehicles having
a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 10, 000 pounds or more. In determining the
width or length of the vehicles defined in this section, any extension to the vehicle caused by
mirrors, air conditioners, or similar attachments shall not be included.
C. Non- motorized Vehicle Defined. For the purpose of this section, " non- motorized
vehicle" shall mean any trailer or any other similar device which is not self-propelled.
D. Exceptions. The prohibition set forth in Subsection A, shall not apply to the
following:
1. To oversized vehicles parked while engaged in loading and unloading
activity for a period not to exceed 4 hours.
2. To any oversized vehicle displaying authorized placards or license plates
identifying the physically handicapped or disabled person pursuant to the California Vehicle
10. 32 ( 3) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Code.
3. To any oversized recreational vehicle displaying a valid permit issued
pursuant to Section 10. 34.020 of this code.
Ord. No. 2004- 13, Added, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2019- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 32.060 Authority to Remove Vehicles for Sale
A. Purpose. The City Council of the City of Vista finds that the display of vehicles
for sale on public streets creates a distraction for drivers and pedestrians, thereby creating a
traffic hazard; creates a public nuisance for the community; and decreases the available parking
for businesses and residents. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the use of designated
public streets for the private sale of vehicles when such activity adversely affects the
neighborhoods in the city of Vista.
B. The term " designated streets" shall mean all public streets of the city of Vista.
Enforcement of the prohibition shall not take effect until signs prohibiting the parking of vehicles
for sale have been installed.
C. Unlawful to Park a Vehicle on Public Street Displaying it for Sale. It is unlawful to
park a vehicle on a designated public street pursuant to Section 10. 32. 060 when, because of a
sign or placard on the vehicle, it appears that the primary purpose of parking the vehicle at that
location is to display to the public that the vehicle is for sale.
D. A notice of parking violation for Section 10. 32.060 must be accompanied by:
1. A warning that an additional violation of Section 10. 32. 060.0 may result in
the impoundment of the vehicle, even if the vehicle is moved to another public street designated
under this section, so long as the sign or placard offering the vehicle for sale remains on the
vehicle.
2. A list of the public streets subject to this section.
E. Removal of Vehicles Displayed for Sale. City employees or agents, as
authorized by Vehicle Code Section 22651. 9, may order the removal of any vehicle from any
designated street when, because of a sign or placard on the vehicle, it appears that the primary
purpose of parking the vehicle at that location, or on another designated street, is to display to
the public that the vehicle is for sale, and when the vehicle has previously been issued a notice
of parking violation under this section within the last 30 days, but not less than 24 hours.
F. Procedure and criteria for designating streets.
1. The procedure and criteria for designating a street under this section shall
be established per City Council Policy.
2. The City Manager shall have the sole authority to approve or disapprove
designating streets. In the event the City Manager approves designating a street, appropriate
signs shall be posted giving notice thereof.
3. The prohibition shall be effective 30 days from the date of the installation
of the signs.
Prior Code 18- 44; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 2009- 25, Amended, 12/ 8/ 09)
Section 10. 32.070 Repairing Vehicles on Public Streets
No persons shall construct or cause to be constructed, repair or cause to be repaired,
grease or cause to be greased, dismantle or cause to be dismantled, any vehicle or any part
thereof upon any public street in this city.
Prior Code 18- 45; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
10. 32 ( 4) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 32.080 Vehicle Repair Prohibited in Residential Zones
A. No person shall repair, assemble, disassemble or dismantle any motor vehicle
upon any portion of a lot or parcel of land within any residential zone of the city unless such
vehicle is contained either:
1. Within an enclosed garage located on the lot or parcel of land on which
the vehicle is located.
2. On the rear one-third of the lot or parcel of land on which the vehicle is
located; provided that such vehicle is screened from public view by six-foot fencing approved by
the City Manager or his designee. Such vehicle shall not be stored within five feet of any
adjoining property line.
Prior Code 18- 45; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10.32.090 Washing or Polishing Vehicles
No person shall wash or cause to be washed, polish or cause to be polished any vehicle
or any part thereof upon any public street in this city, when a charge is made for such service.
Prior Code 18- 46; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32. 100 Parking Adjacent to Schools
A. Subject to approval by resolution of the City Council, the City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any
school property when such parking would, in his opinion, interfere with traffic or create a
hazardous situation.
B. When official signs are erected prohibiting parking upon that side of a street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
Prior Code 18- 47; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32. 110 Parking Prohibited on Narrow Streets
A. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place signs or markings indicating no
parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or upon one
side of a street as indicated by such signs or markings when the width of the roadway does not
exceed 30 feet.
B. When official signs or markings prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized in Subsection A of this section, no person shall park a vehicle upon any
such street in violation of any such sign or marking.
Prior Code 18- 48; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 32. 120 Parking on Grades
No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle unattended on a street when upon
any grade exceeding three percent, within any business or residence district, without blocking
the wheels of such vehicle by turning them against the curb or by other means.
Prior Code 18- 49; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 32 ( 5) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 32. 130 Parking for Commercial Purposes Prohibited - Exceptions
A. Except as otherwise provided in Chapters 5. 52 and 8.24 of this code and in this
section, no person shall stand or park any vehicle, wagon, or pushcart from which goods,
wares, merchandise, fruits, vegetables or foodstuffs are sold, displayed, solicited or offered for
sale or bartered or exchanged, or any lunch wagon or eating cart or vehicle, on any portion of
any street within this city except that such vehicles, wagons, or pushcarts may stand or park
only at the request of a prospective purchaser for a period of time not to exceed ten minutes at
any one place. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to persons delivering such articles
upon order of or by agreement with a customer from a store or other fixed place of business or
distribution.
B. No person shall park or stand on any street, any wagon, eating cart or vehicle, or
pushcart from which articles of food are sold or offered for sale without first obtaining a written
permit to do so from the City Council which shall designate the specific location in which such
wagon or cart shall stand or the permits required by Chapters 5. 52 and 8. 24 of this code.
C. Whenever any permit is granted under the provisions of this section and a
particular location to park or stand is specified therein, no person shall park or stand any
vehicle, wagon, or pushcart on any location other than as designated in such permit. In the
event that the holder of any such permit is convicted in any court of competent jurisdiction for
violating any of the provisions of this section, such permit shall be forthwith revoked by the City
Council and no permit shall thereafter be issued to such person until six months have elapsed
from the day of such revocation.
D. No person shall operate a prepared food vending vehicle in violation of any
parking condition of the City permit issued therefore pursuant to Chapters 5. 52 and 8.24 of this
code.
Prior Code 18- 50; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 86-42, Amended, 8/ 26/ 86)
Section 10. 32. 140 Emergency Parking Signs
A. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer determines that an emergency traffic
congestion is likely to result from the holding of public or private assemblages, gatherings or
functions, or for other reasons, the City Traffic Engineer shall have power and authority to order
temporary signs to be erected or posted indicating that the operation, parking or standing of
vehicles is prohibited on such streets and alleys as the City Traffic Engineer shall direct during
the time such temporary signs are in place. Such signs shall remain in place only during the
existence of such emergency and the City Traffic Engineer shall cause such signs to be
removed promptly thereafter.
B. When signs authorized by the provisions of this section are in place giving notice
thereof, no person shall operate, park or stand any vehicle contrary to the directions and
provisions of such signs.
Prior Code 18- 51; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32. 150 Permitted Parking in Prohibited Areas
A. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to permit temporary parking in any areas
where parking is prohibited, for special events or emergencies, through a permit process.
However, by state law the City Traffic Engineer has no authority to allow temporary parking in
any of the following locations:
1 In areas designated for the disabled.
2. Upon a railroad track or within seven and one- half feet of the nearest rail.
3. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
10. 32 ( 6) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
4. In a direction opposite to that in which traffic normally moves.
5. Within an intersection, except adjacent to curbs if permitted by local
ordinance.
6. Between a safety zone and the adjacent right-hand curb or within the
area between the zone and the curb as may be indicated by a sign or red paint on the curb.
7. Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
8. In front of a public or private driveway.
9. On a sidewalk.
10. Alongside or opposite any street or highway excavation or obstruction
when such parking would obstruct traffic.
11. On the roadway side of any vehicles stopped, parked or standing at the
curb or edge of a highway.
12. Alongside curb space authorized for the loading and unloading of
passengers of a bus engaged as a common carrier and local transportation when indicated by a
sign or red paint on the curb.
13. In a tube or tunnel.
14. Upon a bridge.
15. In front of the portion of a curb which has been cut down, lowered, or
constructed to provide wheelchair accessibility to the sidewalk and which is designated for
wheelchair access by either a sign or red paint on the curb.
B. The City shall establish by resolution a permit process for persons wishing to
apply under this section for temporary parking in any area where parking is prohibited, with the
exception of the areas listed in paragraphs 1 to 15 of Subsection A of this section.
Prior Code 18- 51; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted, 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 32. 160 Civil Penalties; Administrative Fees
A. Pursuant to Article 3 ( commencing with Section 40200), Chapter 1, Division 17 of
the California Vehicle Code ( the ` Parking Violations Procedural Law"), a violation of any
regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle under the Vehicle Code, and of
Chapters 10.32, 10.36, 10.40, or 12. 08, of this code, is subject to a civil penalty, the
enforcement of which shall be governed by the civil administrative procedures set forth in said
Article 3.
B. For each regulation, or category of regulations, governing the standing or parking
of vehicles that is or are subject to the enforcement provisions referred to in Subdivision A
above, there is hereby established a civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty for violation of
each such regulation, or category of regulations, shall be determined from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
C. In addition to the civil penalties provided for in Subdivision B, above, the City
Council from time to time may establish by resolution such additional penalties for late payment,
administrative fees, and processing fees as are necessary and proper for the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this section and of the Parking Violations Procedural Law, or as
may be authorized by the law.
D. If the City incurs collection costs in conjunction with the assignment of a
delinquent parking citation to a collection agency, any costs owed to that agency shall be added
to the penalty for the citation, and the violator shall be liable to the City for both the original civil
penalty, and such additional collection costs, which shall become part of the civil penalty.
Ord. No. 94-27, Enacted, 11/ 22/ 94; Ord. No. 2015- 15, Amended 8/ 25/ 15)
10. 32 ( 7) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 34
Oversized Recreational Vehicle Parking on Residential Streets
Sections:
10. 34.010 Parking of Oversized Recreational Vehicles on Residential Streets Permit
Requirement
10. 34.020 Permit Process for Oversized Recreational Vehicle Parking
10. 34.030 Violations - Penalty
Section 10. 34.010 Parking of Oversized Recreational Vehicles on Residential Streets
Permit Requirement
A. No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any oversized
recreational vehicle shall stop, stand, park, or leave standing such vehicle on any residential
street, except as provided below.
B. " Oversized recreational vehicle" for the purpose of this section shall mean any
of the following vehicles which exceed 24 feet in length; 11 feet in height; or nine feet in width, or
any vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 10, 000 pounds or more. In
determining the width, length or height of any oversized recreational vehicle, any extension to
the vehicle caused by mirrors, air conditioners, or similar attachments shall not be included in
the measurement. Oversized recreational vehicles shall include the following:
1. Travel trailer - a vehicular portable structure built on a chassis designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for human habitation for travel, recreational, and vacation
purposes.
2. Motorized home - a portable structure designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle to be used as a temporary dwelling for human habitation
for travel, recreational, and vacation purposes.
3. Boats, jet-skis, watercrafts, boat/watercraft trailers, motorcycle trailers,
unlicensed dune buggies, and other motorized or towed vehicles used solely for recreational
purposes.
C. The provision of this section shall not apply to any of the following:
1. Oversized recreational vehicles in the process of loading or unloading for
a period not to exceed 48 consecutive hours in any 72 consecutive hour period. The 48- hour
period shall run concurrent with the 72- hour period.
2. Any oversized recreational vehicle parked while the owner or operator of
the vehicle is in the process of making emergency repairs to such vehicle or arranging for
emergency repairs to be made provided all repairs are completed within 24 hours. Emergency
repairs shall be limited to repairs necessitated by sudden unforeseen events, such as a flat tire.
Emergency repairs shall not include routine or normal maintenance.
3. Any travel trailer, boat/watercraft trailer or motorcycle trailer regardless of
size not securely attached to a motor vehicle capable of lawfully towing such travel trailer,
boat/watercraft trailer or motorcycle trailer on a public street.
4. Any oversized recreational vehicle belonging to federal, state, or local
authorities.
5. To any oversized recreational vehicle displaying authorized placards or
license plates identifying the physically handicapped or disabled person pursuant to the
California Vehicle Code.
6. Any oversized recreational vehicle displaying a valid permit issued
pursuant to Section 10. 34. 020.
Ord. No. 2004- 14, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04)
10. 34 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 34.020 Permit Process for Oversized Recreational Vehicle Parking
A. The City Manager or his or her designee shall issue a permit for oversized
recreational vehicle to any resident of the City, or a bona fide guest of such resident provided
the permit fee is paid and the parking of the oversized recreational vehicle will not create a
hazard. The permit shall state the address of the resident and the date the permit is issued.
B. The duration of the permit shall not exceed 72 consecutive hours.
C. No more than three permits shall be issued to any residence during any
consecutive 12- month period.
D. The permit fee shall be set by the City Council by resolution.
E. No oversized recreational vehicle shall be used for overnight camping, lodging,
sleeping, residing in or accommodation purposes.
F. Any oversized recreational vehicle capable of expansion by slide- out or similar
features shall maintain such features in the retracted position while parked on a public street,
except while in the process of cleaning and maintenance, the slide out is next to the curb, and
provided it does not impede pedestrian traffic.
Ord. No. 2004- 14, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04)
Section 10. 34.030 Violations - Penalty
The provisions of this chapter are enforceable and violations are punishable pursuant to
Section 10. 32. 160 of this code.
Ord. No. 2004- 14, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04)
10. 34 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 36
Parking, Standing and Stopping on Streets and Public Property;
Operation of Vehicles on Private Property
Sections:
10. 36.010 Fifteen Minute and Thirty Minute Parking
10. 36.020 One Hour Parking
10. 36.030 Two Hour Parking
10. 36.040 Parking Parallel on One-Way Streets
10. 36.050 Diagonal Parking
10. 36.060 Parking Space Markings
10. 36.070 No Stopping Zones
10. 36.080 Parking Vehicles in Residential Areas
10. 36.090 Parking on City Property
10. 36. 100 Operating Vehicles on Private or Public Property
Section 10. 36.010 Fifteen Minute and Thirty Minute Parking
A. Green curb marking means no standing or parking for a period of time that is
either fifteen minutes or thirty minutes as specified by signs or curb marking stencils at any time
between 9: 00 a.m. and 6:00 p. m. on any day except Sundays and holidays.
B. When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined
by the City Council to be necessary and are in place giving notice thereof, no operator of any
vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb markings or
sign or parking meter in violation thereof.
Prior Code 18- 52; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 36.020 One Hour Parking
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by the
City Council to be necessary and are in place giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle
shall stop, stand or park such vehicle between the hours of 9:00 a. m. and 6:00 p. m. of any day
except Sundays and holidays for a period of time longer than one hour.
Prior Code 18- 53; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 36.030 Two Hour Parking
When authorized signs, parking meters or curb markings have been determined by the
City Council to be necessary and are in place giving notice thereof, no operator of any vehicle
shall stop, stand or park such vehicle between the hours of 9:00 a. m. and 6: 00 p. m. of any day
except Sundays and holidays, or between such other hours as provided by resolution, for a period
of time longer than two hours.
Prior Code 18- 54; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 2005- 3, Amended, 2/ 22/ 05)
Section 10. 36.040 Parking Parallel on One-Way Streets
A. Subject to other and more restrictive limitations, a vehicle may be stopped or
parked within 18 inches of the left-hand curb facing in the direction of traffic movement upon a
one-way street unless signs are in place prohibiting such stopping or standing.
10. 36 (l) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon
the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are in place permitting such standing
or parking.
C. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine when standing or parking
shall be prohibited upon the left-hand side of any one-way street or when standing or parking
may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any one-way roadway of a highway having two or
more separate roadways and shall erect signs giving notice thereof.
D. The requirement of parallel parking imposed by this section do not apply in the
event any commercial vehicle is actually engaged in the process of loading or unloading freight
or goods, in which case such vehicle may be backed up to the curb; provided, that such vehicle
does not extend beyond the center line of the street and does not block traffic thereby.
Prior Code 18- 55; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 36.050 Diagonal Parking
A. On any of the streets or portions of streets designated for diagonal parking, by
placement of signs or pavement markings, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park
such vehicle except:
1. At the angle to the curb indicated by signs or pavement markings
allotting space to parked vehicles and entirely within the limits of said allotted space.
2. With the front wheel nearest the curb within six inches of said curb.
B. The provisions of this section do not apply when such vehicle is actually engaged
in the process of loading or unloading passengers, freight or goods, in which event the
provisions applicable in Section 10. 36.040 of this chapter shall be complied with.
Prior Code 18- 56; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 36.060 Parking Space Markings
A. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to install and maintain parking space
markings to indicate parking spaces adjacent to curbing where authorized parking is permitted.
B. When such parking space markings are placed on the highway, subject to other
and more restrictive limitations, no vehicle shall be stopped, left standing or parked other than
within a single space unless the size or shape of such vehicle makes compliance impossible.
Prior Code 18- 57; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 36.070 No Stopping Zones
A. The City Traffic Engineer shall designate established no stopping zones by
placing and maintaining appropriate signs indicating that stopping of vehicles is prohibited and
indicating the hours and days when stopping is prohibited.
B. During the hours and on the days designated on the signs, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to stop such vehicle on any of the streets or parts of streets established
by resolution of the City Council as no stopping zones.
Prior Code 18- 58; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 36.080 Parking Vehicles in Residential Areas
A. No person shall park a commercial vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle
weight rating of 10, 000 pounds or more in a residential area, except:
10. 36 (2) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
1. While making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares and merchandise
from or to any building or structure located on the restricted streets or highways and for no more
than a consecutive period of 4 hours; or
2. While delivering materials to be used in the actual or bona fide repair,
alteration, remodeling or construction of any building or structure upon the restricted streets or
highways for which a building permit has previously been obtained and for no more than a
consecutive period of 4 hours.
B. For the purpose of this section, a " residential area" means all areas located
within a residential zone, including public and private streets and private property, and any other
area for which the utilization of the surrounding land is primarily residential.
Prior Code 18- 59; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 84- 14, Amended 4/ 9/ 84; Ord. No. 84-47,
Amended 11/ 13/ 84; Ord. No. 89- 33, Amended 11/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10.36.090 Parking on City Property
A. Whenever the City Traffic Engineer shall determine that the orderly, efficient
conduct of the City's business requires that parking or standing of vehicles on City property be
prohibited, limited or restricted the City Traffic Engineer shall have the power and authority to
order signs to be erected or posted indicating that the parking of vehicles is thus prohibited,
limited or restricted.
B. When signs authorized by the provisions of this section are in place, giving notice
thereof, no person shall park or stand any vehicle contrary to the directions or provisions of such
signs.
C. Officers of the Sheriff's Department and Code Enforcement personnel for the City
are authorized to cause the removal of vehicles parked in violation of this section. Before any
vehicle is removed pursuant to this section, a sign notifying the public of the parking restriction
and the possible removal of vehicles shall be posted for a minimum of 48 hours.
Prior Code 18- 60; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 2013- 18, Amended 8/ 27/ 13)
Section 10. 36. 100 Operating Vehicles on Private or Public Property
No persons shall operate or drive a motor vehicle, motorcycle, mini- bike, dune buggy,
motor scooter, jeep or other form of motorized transportation upon the private property of
another or upon any public property which is not held open to the public for any vehicular use
and which is not subject to provisions of the Vehicle Code, without having and displaying, upon
the request of a peace officer, written permission from the owner of such property or his agent
or the person in lawful possession thereof. Provided, however, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to emergency vehicles, governmental agencies or to other persons driving upon
such property with the written consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such
property, or to the owner himself, his family, employees, agents or lessees.
Prior Code 18- 61; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 98- 10, Amended, 10/ 27/ 98)
10. 36 ( 3) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.40
Loading Zones
Sections:
10. 40. 010 Authority to Establish Loading Zones
10. 40.020 Curb Markings to Indicate No Stopping or Parking
10. 40.030 Effect of Permission to Load or Unload
10. 40.040 Standing for Loading or Unloading Only
10. 40.050 Standing in Passenger Loading Zone
10. 40.060 Standing in Any Alley
10. 40.070 Bus Zones to be Established
Section 10. 40.010 Authority to Establish Loading Zones
A. Subject to approval by resolution of the City Council, the City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine and to mark loading zones and passenger loading zones as follows:
1. At any place in a business district.
2. Elsewhere in front of the entrance to any place of business or in front of
any hall or place used for the purpose of public assembly.
B. In no event shall more than one-half of the total curb length in any block be
reserved for loading zone purposes.
C. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and to mark passenger
loading zones adjacent to schools, which are to be used for school student drop off and pick up.
Such passenger loading shall be limited to between the hours of 7:00 a. m. and 4: 00 p. m. on
school days. These time limits shall be clearly indicated on signs erected adjacent to the
passenger loading zone.
D. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and to mark school bus
loading zones adjacent to schools, which are to be used for school student drop off and pick up by
school buses. Such passenger loading shall be limited to between the hours of 7:00 a. m. and
4:00 p.m. on school days or time limits and days as requested by the school district. These time
limits shall be clearly indicated on signs erected adjacent to the passenger loading zone.
E. Loading zones shall be indicated by yellow paint upon curbs within such zones.
F. Passenger loading zones shall be indicated by white paint upon curbs in such
zones.
Prior Code 18- 62; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70; Ord. No. 19- 08, Amended, 5/ 28/ 19)
Section 10. 40.020 Curb Markings to Indicate No Stopping or Parking
A. The City Traffic Engineer is authorized, subject to the provisions and limitations of
this title, to place, and when required in this chapter shall place, the following curb markings to
indicate parking or standing regulations, and such curb markings have the meanings set forth in
this section.
1. Red means no stopping, standing or parking at any time except as
permitted by the Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a red zone only when marked
or signed as a bus zone.
2. Yellow means no stopping, standing or parking at any time between 7: 00
a.m. and 6:00 p. m. of any day except Sundays and holidays for any purpose other than the
loading or unloading of passengers or materials, provided that the loading or unloading of
passengers does not consume more than three minutes nor the loading or unloading of materials
10. 40 (l) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
more than 20 minutes.
3. White means no stopping, standing or parking for any purpose other than
loading or unloading of passengers, or for the purpose of depositing mail in an adjacent mail
box, which shall not exceed three minutes and such restrictions apply between 7:00 a.m. and
6:00 p. m. of any day except Sundays and holidays and except as follows:
a. When such zone is in front of a hotel or in front of a mail box the
restrictions apply at all times.
b. When such zone is in front of a theater the restrictions apply at all
times except when such theater is closed.
4. When the City Traffic Engineer as authorized under this title has caused
curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle adjacent to any such
legible curb marking in violation of any of the provisions of this section.
Prior Code 18- 63; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.40.030 Effect of Permission to Load or Unload
A. Permission granted in this chapter to stop or stand a vehicle for purposes of
loading or unloading of materials applies only to commercial vehicles and does not extend
beyond the time necessary therefore, and in no event for more than 20 minutes.
B. The loading or unloading of materials applies only to commercial deliveries, also
the delivery or pick- up of express and parcel post packages and United States mail.
C. Permission granted in this chapter to stop or park for purposes of loading or
unloading passengers includes the loading or unloading of personal baggage, but does not
extend beyond the time necessary therefore and in no event for more than three minutes.
D. Within the total time limits specified in Subsections A through C of this section
the provisions of this section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and
reasonable loading or unloading, but without permitting abuse of the privileges granted by this
section.
Prior Code 18- 64; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.40.040 Standing for Loading or Unloading Only
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any yellow loading zone for any purpose
other than loading or unloading passengers or material for such time as is permitted in Section
10. 40.030.
Prior Code 18- 65; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.40.050 Standing in Passenger Loading Zone
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger loading zone for any
purpose other than the loading or unloading of passengers for such time as is specified in
Section 10.40. 030.
Prior code 18- 66; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.40.060 Standing in Any Alley
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other than the loading or
unloading of persons or materials in any alley and in no event shall such stopping or parking be
for a period longer than 30 minutes.
Prior Code 18- 67; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 40 (2) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 40.070 Bus Zones to be Established
A. Subject to approval by resolution of the City Council, the City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to establish bus zones opposite curb space for the loading and unloading of buses or
common carriers of passengers and to determine the location thereof.
B. Coach zones shall normally be established on the far side of an intersection.
Prior Code 18- 68; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 40 (3) Vista 6/ 28/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.44
Truck Routes and Weight Limits
Sections:
10. 44.010 Designation of Truck Routes
10. 44.020 Commercial Vehicles Prohibited from Using Certain Streets
10. 44.030 Movement of Heavy Vehicles and Equipment - Permit Required
Section 10. 44.010 Designation of Truck Routes
A. Whenever any resolution of this City designates and describes any street or
portion thereof as a street the use of which is permitted by any vehicle exceeding a maximum
gross weight limit of seven tons, the City Traffic Engineer is authorized to designate such street
or streets by appropriate signs as " truck routes" for the movement of vehicles exceeding a
maximum gross weight limit of seven tons.
B. When any such truck route or routes are established and designated by
appropriate signs the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of seven
tons shall drive on such route or routes and none other except that nothing in this section
prohibits the operator of any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of seven tons coming
from a " truck route" having ingress and egress by direct route to and from restricted streets
when necessary for the purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares and
merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted streets or for the
purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual and bona fide repair, alteration,
remodeling or construction of any building or structure upon such restricted streets for which a
building permit has previously been obtained therefore.
C. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
1. Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the public utilities commission,
2. Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in use in the
construction, installation, or repair of any public utility.
3. Vehicles used for collection and transportation of garbage, rubbish, or
refuse using traditionally used routes when the solid waste management plan designates such
routes.
D. Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the City Council
are declared to be truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross
weight of seven tons.
Prior Code 18- 69; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70, Ord. No. 91- 19, Amended, 07/ 23/ 91)
Section 10. 44.020 Commercial Vehicles Prohibited from Using Certain Streets
A. Whenever any resolution of this City designates and describes any street or
portion thereof as a street the use of which is prohibited by any commercial vehicle, the City
Traffic Engineer shall erect and maintain appropriate signs on those streets affected by such
ordinance.
B. Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the City Council
are declared to be streets, the use of which is prohibited by any commercial vehicle. The
provisions of this section do not apply to passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the public
utilities commission.
Prior Code 18- 70; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 44 ( 1) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 44.030 Movement of Heavy Vehicles and Equipment - Permit Required
A. No person shall move or operate upon any of the city streets any vehicle with a
load or loads in excess of those permitted by the Vehicle Code without a written permit from the
City Traffic Engineer.
B. The City Traffic Engineer may, by written permit, authorize a load or loads in
excess of those allowed for in the Vehicle Code, if, in his judgment, the streets upon which such
vehicle is to be operated can safely withstand the additional weight, or if the applicant will
guarantee to the City that all costs of repair to the streets or to the public property of the City
damaged by the movement of such load or loads will be paid in full. Such permit shall be
granted upon such conditions and upon depositing such bond or cash bond as the City Traffic
Engineer in his discretion may require.
Prior Code 18- 72; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 44 ( 2) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.48
Trai ns
Sections:
10.48.010 Railway Crossing Gates
10.48.020 Trains Not to Block Crossings
Section 10.48.010 Railway Crossing Gates
No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing gate or barrier at
a railroad grade crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
Prior Code 18- 74; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10.48.020 Trains Not to Block Crossings
No person shall cause or permit any railway train or railway cars or similar vehicle on rails
to stop or stand or to be operated in such a manner as to prevent the use of any street for the
purposes of travel for a period of time longer than ten minutes, except that this provision does not
apply to railway trains, cars or similar vehicles on rails while blocking or obstructing a crossing
because of an accident which requires the operator of the train, car or similar vehicle on rails to
stop at or near the scene of the accident.
Prior Code 18- 75; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 48 (l) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10. 52
Speed Limits
Sections:
10. 52.010 Increasing State Speed Limit in Certain Zones
10. 52. 020 Decrease of State Law Maximum Speed
10. 52.030 Decrease of State Law Speed Between Districts
10. 52. 040 Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signal
Section 10. 52.010 Increasing State Speed Limit in Certain Zones
The Traffic Engineer may, subject to approval by resolution of the City Council,
determine upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted by
state law upon a street is less than is necessary for safe operation of vehicles thereon by reason
of the designation and sign posting of such street as a through highway and/ or by reason of
widely spaced intersections, and it is declared that the prima facie speed limit shall be as set
forth in such resolution on that street or part of such street therein designated when signs are
erected giving notice thereof.
Prior Code 18- 76; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 52.020 Decrease of State Law Maximum Speed
The Traffic Engineer may, subject to approval by resolution of the City Council,
determine upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the speed permitted by
state law outside of business and residence districts as applicable under a street is greater than
is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon such street, and it is declared that
the prima facie speed limit shall be as set forth in such resolution on that street or part of such
street therein designated when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
Prior Code 18- 77; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 52.030 Decrease of State Law Speed Between Districts
Reference is made to the portions of the street where the state law of 65 miles per hour
is applicable for a distance of not exceeding 2, 000 feet in length between districts, either
business or residence, where the Traffic Engineer may, subject to approval by ordinance of the
City Council, determine upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that the speed
permitted by state law upon the described portions of such streets which are not state highways
is greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon the described
portions of such streets, and it is declared that the prima facie speed limit shall be as set forth in
such ordinance on those portions of streets therein designated when signs are erected giving
notice thereof.
Prior Code 18- 78; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
Section 10. 52.040 Regulation of Speed by Traffic Signals
The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to
permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from
the speeds otherwise applicable within the district or at intersections, and shall erect appropriate
signs giving notice thereof.
Prior Code 18- 79; Ord. No. 70- 17, Enacted 5/ 4/ 70)
10. 52 ( l) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.56
Abandoned Vehicles
Sections:
10. 56. 010 Findings and Declarations
10. 56. 020 Definitions
10. 56.030 Exceptions to Provisions
10. 56. 040 Provisions Supplementary
10. 56.050 Administration of Provisions
10. 56. 060 Right of Entry for Removal
10. 56.070 Fixing of Removal Costs
10. 56. 080 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Authority of Code Enforcement Officer
10. 56.090 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Notice of Intention to Abate and Remove
10. 56. 100 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Request for Hearing - Notice
10. 56. 110 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Hearings before Council - Decision
10. 56. 120 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Appeals
10. 56. 130 Removal or Disposal of Vehicle or Parts
10. 56. 140 Notice of Removal to Department of Motor Vehicles
10. 56. 150 Delinquent Costs to be Assessed Against Land
10. 56. 160 Unlawful Parking of Abandoned Vehicles
10. 56. 170 Failure to Comply with Order or State Law
Section 10. 56.010 Findings and Declarations
In addition to and in accordance with the determination made and the authority granted
by the state of California under Section 22660 of the Vehicle Code to remove abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof as public nuisances, the City
Council makes the following findings and declarations:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof on private or public property not including highways is found to create
a condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight and deterioration,
to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a
hazard to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and
to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof, on private or public
property not including highways, except as expressly permitted in this chapter, is declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
Prior Code 18- 80; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. No. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72)
Section 10. 56.020 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
Highway" means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained, and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. Highway includes street.
Owner of the Land" means the owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts
thereof, is located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
Owner of the Vehicle" means the last registered owner and legal owner of record.
Public property" does not include " highway."
10. 56 ( l) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Vehicle" means a device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
Prior Code 18- 80; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. No. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72)
Section 10. 56.030 Exceptions to Provisions
A. This chapter does not apply to:
1. A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a building in
a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other public or private property; or
2. A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner on
private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer
or a junk dealer.
B. Nothing in this section authorizes the maintenance of a public or private nuisance
as defined under provisions of law other than Chapter 10 ( commencing with Section 22650) of
Division 11 of the Vehicle Code and this chapter.
Prior Code 18- 81; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69)
Section 10. 56.040 Provisions Supplementary
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicles within the city. It supplements and is in addition to the other regulatory
codes, statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the City, the state or any
other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
Prior Code 18- 82; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69)
Section 10. 56.050 Administration of Provisions
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer, or any other officer, employee, or
public entity designated by the City Council from time to time. Whenever in this chapter the
term " Code Enforcement Officer" is used, it is deemed to include any such other officer,
employee or public entity so designated by the City Council. In the enforcement of this chapter
such officer may enter upon private or public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or
obtain information as to the identity of a vehicle and remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
part thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
Prior Code 18- 83; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 74- 54,
Amended 10/ 29/ 74; Ord. No. 86- 23, Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56.060 Right of Entry for Removal
When the City Council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person or
persons, such person or persons, are authorized to enter upon private property or public
property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter.
Prior Code 18- 84; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69)
Section 10. 56.070 Fixing of Removal Costs
The City Council shall from time to time by resolution determine and fix an amount to be
assessed as administrative costs excluding the actual cost of removal of any vehicle or part
10. 56 (2) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
thereof under this chapter.
Prior Code 18- 85; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69)
Section 10. 56.080 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Authority of Code Enforcement
Officer
Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property within the city, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to enter upon such private or public property and
cause the abatement and removal thereof in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this
chapter.
Prior Code 18- 86; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23,
Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56.090 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Notice of Intention to Abate and
Remove
A ten- day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or parts thereof, as a
public nuisance shall be mailed by registered mail to the owner of the land and to the owner of
the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not available to
determine ownership. The notices of intention shall be in substantially the following forms:
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE
AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED, OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE
OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
Name and address of owner of the land)
As owner shown on the last equalized assessment roll of the land located at
address) you are hereby notified that the undersigned pursuant to
section of ordinance or Municipal Code) has determined that there exists upon said land an ( or
parts of an) abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle registered to ( name)
license number ( number) , which constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions
of( ordinance or Municipal Code Chapter number).
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle ( or said
parts of a vehicle) within ten days from the date of mailing of this notice, and upon your failure to
do so the same will be abated and removed by the City and the costs thereof, together with
administrative costs, assessed to you as owner of the land on which said vehicle ( or said parts of
a vehicle) is located.
As owner of the land on which said vehicle ( or said parts of a vehicle) is located, you are
hereby notified that you may, within ten days after the mailing of this notice of intention, request
a public hearing and if such a request is not received by the City Manager or his designee within
such ten- day period, the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to abate and remove
said vehicle ( or said parts of a vehicle) as a public nuisance and assess the costs as aforesaid
without a public hearing. You may submit a sworn written statement within such ten- day period
denying responsibility for the presence of said vehicle ( or said parts of a vehicle) on said land,
with your reasons for denial, and such statement shall be construed as a request for hearing at
which your presence is not required.
You may appear in person at any hearing requested by you or the owner of the vehicle,
or, in lieu thereof, may present a sworn written statement as aforesaid in time for consideration
at such hearing.
10. 56 (3) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Notice Mailed Date)
Signed by City Manager)
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE AND REMOVE
AN ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE
OR PARTS THEREOF AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE
Name and address of last registered and/or
legal owner of record of vehicle - Notice should be
given to both if different)
As last registered ( and/ or legal) owner of record of ( description of vehicle make, model,
license, etc.), you are hereby notified that the undersigned pursuant to ( section of ordinance or
Municipal Code) has determined that said vehicle ( or parts of a vehicle) exists as an
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle at ( describe location on public or private
Property) and constitutes a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of (ordinance or Municipal
Code Chapter number).
You are hereby notified to abate said nuisance by the removal of said vehicle ( or said
parts of a vehicle) within ten days from the date of mailing of this notice.
As registered ( and/ or legal) owner of record of said vehicle ( or said parts of a vehicle),
you are hereby notified that you may, within ten days after the mailing of this notice of intention,
request a public hearing and if such a request is not received by the City Manager or his
designee within the ten- day period, the Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to
abate and remove said vehicle ( or said parts of said vehicle) without a hearing.
Notice Mailed Date)
Signed by City Manager)
Prior Code 18- 87; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23,
Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56. 100 Abatement and Removal Procedure-Request for Hearing - Notice
A. Upon request by the owner of the vehicle or owner of the land received by the
Code Enforcement Officer within ten days after the mailing of the notices of intention to abate
and remove, a public hearing shall be held by the City Manager or his designee on the question
of abatement and removal of the vehicle or parts thereof as an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle, and the assessment of the administrative costs and the cost
of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof against the property on which it is located.
B. If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying responsibility
for the presence of the vehicle on his land within such ten- day period, such statement shall be
construed as a request for a hearing which does not require his presence. Notice of the
hearing shall be mailed, by registered mail, at least ten days before the hearing to the owner of
the land and to the owner of the vehicle, unless the vehicle is in such condition that
identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. If such a request for hearing is
not received within said ten days after mailing of the notice of intention to abate and remove, the
Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to abate and remove the vehicle or parts
thereof as a public nuisance without holding a public hearing.
Prior Code 18- 88; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23,
Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
10. 56 (4) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 56. 110 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Hearings before Council -
Decision
A. All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the City Manager or his
designee who shall hear all facts and testimony he deems pertinent. Said facts and testimony
may include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts thereof and the circumstances
concerning its location on such private property or public property. The City Manager or his
designee shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land may
appear in person at the hearing or present a sworn statement in time for consideration at the
hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence of the vehicle on the land, with his reasons for
such denial.
B. The City Manager or his designee may impose such conditions and take such
other action as it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this
chapter. He may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts thereof if, in his opinion, the
circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the City Manager or his
designee may find that a vehicle or parts thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
is inoperative on private or public property and order the same removed from the property as a
public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and determine the administrative costs
and the cost of removal to be charged against the owner of the land. The order requiring
removal shall include a description of the vehicle or parts thereof and the correct identification
number and license number of the vehicle, if available at the site.
C. If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land without
the consent of the owner of the land and that he has not subsequently acquiesced in its
presence, the City Manager or his designee shall not assess the cost of administration or
removal of the vehicle against the property upon which the vehicle is located or otherwise
attempt to collect such costs from such owner of the land.
D. If the owner of the land submits a sworn written statement denying responsibility
for the presence of the vehicle on his land but does not appear, or if an interested party makes
a written presentation to the City Manager or his designee but does not appear, he shall be
notified in writing of the decision.
Prior Code 18- 89; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23, Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56. 120 Abatement and Removal Procedure - Appeals
A. Any interested party may appeal the decision of the City Manager or his
designee by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Council within five days after the
decision.
B. Such appeal shall be heard by the City Council which may affirm, amend or
reverse the order or take other action deemed appropriate.
C. The clerk shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing to the
appellant and those persons specified in Section 10. 56. 090.
D. In conducting the hearing, the City Council shall not be limited by the technical
rules of evidence.
Prior Code 18- 90; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23, Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56. 130 Removal or Disposal of Vehicle or Parts
Five days after adoption of the order declaring the vehicle or parts thereof to be a public
nuisance, five days from the date of mailing of notice of the decision if such notice is required by
Section 10. 56. 100, or 15 days after such action of the City Manager or his designee authorizing
removal, the vehicles or parts thereof may be disposed of by removal to a scrap yard or
10. 56 (5) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
automobile dismantler' s yard. After a vehicle has been removed it shall not thereafter be
reconstructed or made operable.
Prior Code 18- 91; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23,
Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56. 140 Notice of Removal to Department of Motor Vehicles
Within five days after the date of removal of the vehicle of parts thereof, notice shall be
given to the department of motor vehicles identifying the vehicle or parts thereof removed. At the
same time there shall be transmitted to the department of motor vehicles any evidence of
registration available, including registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates.
Prior Code 18- 92; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72)
Section 10. 56. 150 Delinquent Costs to be Assessed Against Land
If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged against the owner of
a parcel of land pursuant to Section 10. 56. 100 are not paid within 30 days of the date of the order,
or the final disposition of an appeal, such costs shall be assessed against the parcel of land
pursuant to Section 38773.5 of the Government Code and shall be transmitted to the tax collector
for collection. Said assessment has the same priority as other City taxes.
Prior Code 18- 93; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72)
Section 10. 56. 160 Unlawful Parking of Abandoned Vehicles
It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to abandon, park, store or leave or permit
the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of any licensed or unlicensed vehicle or part thereof
which is in an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition upon any private property
or public property not including highways within the city unless such vehicle or part thereof is
completely enclosed within a building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible from the
street or other public or private property, or unless such vehicle is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard.
Prior Code 18- 94; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72; Ord. No. 86- 23,
Amended 4/ 22/ 86)
Section 10. 56. 170 Failure to Comply with Order or State Law
It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse to remove an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof or refuse to abate such nuisance when
ordered to do so in accordance with the abatement provisions of this chapter or state law where
such state law is applicable.
Prior Code 18- 95; Ord. No. 69- 73, Enacted 12/ 1/ 69; Ord. 72- 18, Amended 5/ 22/ 72)
10. 56 (6) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.60
Interstate Truck Terminal Designation and Terminal Access
Sections:
10. 60.010 Intent and Purpose - Generally
10. 60.020 Intent and Purpose - Compliance with State and Federal Regulations
10. 60.030 Application Process
10. 60.040 Definitions
10. 60.050 Cost Recovery
10. 60.060 Revocation of Route
10. 60.070 Appeals process
10. 60.080 Retrofitting Ramps, Intersections and Roadways
Section 10. 60.010 Intent and Purpose - Generally
It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide for the public necessity, health,
safety or general welfare through the establishment of procedures for terminal designation and
truck route designation to terminals for interstate trucks.
Prior Code 18- 96; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Section 10. 60.020 Intent and Purpose - Compliance with State and Federal
Regulations
Since STAA1982 and AB866 revised current state law on length and width of truck
combinations and implements federal requirements dealing with access to the federally
designated system by interstate trucks, it is required that the City enact an ordinance delineating
the process of application for terminal and route designation within the bounds of the city limits by
citizens/ business establishments requiring the service of such interstate trucks off the federally
designated system ( i. e., I- 78).
Prior Code 18- 97; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Section 10. 60.030 Application Process
A. Those persons qualifying as a " terminal," as defined in Section 10. 60.040 of this
chapter, and requiring terminal access from federally designated highways, shall submit an
application and appropriate fee to the Public Works Department at City Hall. Said application is
Attachment "A" to this chapter.*
B. Upon receipt of this application, the Director of Public Works will determine the
applicant's conformance with the " terminal" designation and, if so approved, will then determine
the capability of the route requested and/ or alternate routes. Capability will be determined by the
adequate turning radii and lane widths of ramps, intersections and highways. Also, a determinant
factor will be general traffic conditions such as sight distance, speed, and traffic volumes for safe
operation. Access off the federally designated highways will require CalTrans ( District 11)
approval.
C. If the requested route passes through several jurisdictions ( i. e., county or other
municipality), the applicant shall comply with that jurisdiction' s application process. Coordination
will be the responsibility of the entity which controls the terminal' s land use.
Prior Code 18- 98; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Editor's Note: Attachment "A," mentioned in Section 10. 60. 030 ( A), has not been codified, but is on file in
the office of the City Clerk.
10. 60 ( 1) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 60.040 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings given in this
section:
Terminal" means a facility at which freight is consolidated to be shipped, or where full
load consignments may be loaded and off-loaded, or at which the vehicles are regularly
maintained, stored or manufactured.
Interstate Truck" means tractor semis or doubles with unlimited length, as regulated
by CVC 35401. 5 ( a) ( 1) and ( 2).
Prior Code 18- 99; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Section 10. 60.050 Cost Recovery
A. The fee for an application for a terminal designation is to cover the cost of
reviewing route( s) and terminal designation and is to be established by City Council resolution.
The application fee is nonrefundable.
B. If the application for a terminal designation is approved, the applicant will be
required to pay for the purchase and installation of terminal access signs and trailblazer signs.
Trailblazer signs will be required at every decision point on the route to the terminal. Said costs
are to be determined by the office of the Director of Public Works of the City.
Prior Code 18- 100; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Section 10. 60.060 Revocation of Route
The Director of Public Works is authorized to revoke any approved route if such route
proves to be a safety hazard for any vehicular traffic. A safety hazard is defined as inability of
the interstate trucks to negotiate the route and/ or such trucks causing unsafe driving conditions
for other vehicular traffic and/ or pedestrians.
Prior Code 18- 101; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
Section 10. 60.070 Appeals Process
A. If the office of the Director of Public Works denies terminal designation and/ or
route feasibility or revokes a previously approved route per Section 10. 60.060 of this chapter,
the applicant/terminal owner, within ten days following the date of a decision of the Director of
Public Works on a revocation of terminal access or terminal designation, may appeal such
decision to the City Council. An appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by the Department of
Public Works and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The appeal shall state specifically wherein
there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director of Public Works or wherein its decision is
not supported by the evidence in the record. Within five days of the filing of an appeal, the
Director of Public Works shall transmit to the City Clerk the terminal application, the sketches of
the revoked route and all other data filed therewith, the report of the Director of Public Works, the
findings of the Director of Public Works and his decision on the application.
B. The City Clerk shall give notice to the applicant and to the appellant ( if the
applicant is not the appellant) and may give notice to any other interested party of the time when
the appeal will be considered by the City Council.
C. If CalTrans ( District 11), and not the Director of Public Works, denies or revokes
terminal access from federally designated highways, no appeal may be made to the City Council,
but must be made to Cal Trans ( District 11).
Prior Code 18- 102; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
10. 60 ( 2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 10. 60.080 Retrofitting Ramps, Intersections and Roadways
If all feasible routes to a requested terminal are deemed unsatisfactory by the office of the
Director of Public Works, the applicant may request retrofitting of the deficiencies, but all costs of
engineering, construction and inspection will be borne by the applicant. Upon request, the City
will form a benefit district to assist in cost recovery by any other "terminal(s)" using the improved
route. Such benefit district costs would be in proportion to the section of route utilized.
Prior Code 18- 103; Ord. No. 84- 29, Enacted 5/ 29/ 84)
10. 60 ( 3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.64
Land Development And Building Construction Assessments For Traffic Signals
Sections:
10. 64.010 Scope and Purpose
10. 64.020 Definitions
10. 64.030 Assessment Fee Schedule
10. 64,040 Establishment of Fee and Method of Payment
10. 64.050 Exemptions
10. 64.060 Segregation and Use of Revenues
Section 10.64.010 Scope and Purpose
There is imposed by this chapter an assessment on land development and building
construction to equitably finance traffic signalization improvements as necessitated by the
impact of land development and building construction on vehicular traffic flow and circulation
on city streets and highways.
Prior Code 18- 104; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
Section 10.64.020 Definitions
Building" means any structure built for the support, shelter and/ or enclosure of
persons, goods, chattels, animals and/ or property of any kind.
Traffic Signals Systems" means and includes one or more traffic signals, traffic
signal controller assemblies, interconnection facilities, traffic metering and detection systems,
flashing beacons, intersection lighting, sign illumination, communication conduits, electrical
equipment in structures, appurtenant signing and striping, or various combinations thereof.
Prior Code 18- 105; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
Section 10.64.030 Assessment Fee Schedule
The Traffic Signal System Fee Schedule and corresponding method of computation
shall be in conformance with the Signal System Fee Policy as set by resolution by the City
Council.
Prior Code 18- 106; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
Section 10.64.040 Establishment of Fee and Method of Payment
The fee schedule and policy as set by resolution is established and any applicant for a
building permit shall pay the applicable traffic signal system fee prior to the issuance of a
building permit for construction.
Prior Code 18- 107; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
Section 10. 64.050 Exemptions
Any project which, on the date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter
June 11, 1985), meets any of the following criteria is exempt from the fee imposed by this
chapter:
10. 64 ( 1) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
A. A date of application for building permit prior to adoption of this chapter.
B. Alterations which do not increase the floor area of a structure or change the
primary use of the structure.
C. Additions or alterations to a residential dwelling which do not constitute the
addition of a dwelling unit as defined by the Building Code.
Prior Code 18- 108; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
Section 10. 64.060 Segregation and Use of Revenues
Any and all revenues derived from the fee imposed by this chapter shall be segregated
by accepted accounting procedures from all other sources of revenues to the City, and shall be
used exclusively for traffic signalization system improvements including construction of traffic
signals, modification or upgrading of existing traffic signals as needed to provide improved traffic
control and safety, for streets and highways impacted by land development and/ or building
construction, as directed by the City Council.
Prior Code 18- 109; Ord. No. 85- 27, Enacted 6/ 11/ 85)
10. 64 (2) Vista 4/ 10/ 13)
Vita Municipal Code
Chapter 10.68
Bicycles
Sections:
10. 68.010 Definitions
10. 68.020 Bicycle License Required
10. 68.030 License Type and Term
10. 68.040 Contents of License Records
10. 68.050 Duties of Retailer and Dealer
10. 68.060 Change in Ownership or Address
10. 68.070 Transfer of License
10. 68.080 Bicycle License Fee
10. 68.090 Destroying Bicycle Identification
10. 68. 100 Riding on Sidewalks
Section 10. 68.010 Definitions
Bicycle" means any device on which a person may ride, which is propelled by human
power through a system of belts, chains, or gears, and which has either two or three wheels in
tandem or tricycle arrangement, one of which is at least 20 inches in diameter, and a frame size of
at least 14 inches.
Prior Code 5- 1; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
Section 10. 68.020 Bicycle License Required
It is unlawful for any person to operate or use a bicycle on the streets of the city, unless a
license has first been obtained therefore from the license collector.
Prior Code 5- 2; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75)
Section 10. 68.030 License Type and Term
The bicycle license indicia issued shall be that provided by the California Department of
Motor Vehicles and such license shall be effective until December 31, 1978, and shall be
renewable for three-year periods thereafter. The license collector shall issue to the owner of the
licensed bicycle a copy of the registration form obtained from the Department of Motor Vehicles.
Prior Code 5- 3; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
Section 10. 68.040 Contents of License Records
During the period of validity of the license, or until notification that the bicycle no longer is
to be operative, the license collector shall keep a record of all license numbers issued pursuant to
this chapter in the files of the license department. Such record shall contain the following
information:
A. Licensee. Name, address and age of the person to whom such license is issued.
B. Date of Purchase. Date of purchase of such bicycle by such licensee.
C. Description of Bicycle. The make, type and serial number of such bicycle.
Prior Code 5- 5; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
10. 68 ( 1) Vista 2/ 27/ 15)
Vita Municipal Code
Section 10. 68.050 Duties of Retailer and Dealer
A. Each bicycle retailer and each bicycle dealer located in the city shall supply to
each purchaser a preregistration form provided by the license collector and shall include on the
sales check or receipt given to the purchaser, a record of the following information: name of
retailer, address of retailer, year and make of the bicycle, serial number of the bicycle if
delivered to the purchaser in an assembled state, general description of the bicycle, name of
purchaser and address of purchaser.
B. For the purposes of this chapter, a " Bicycle Dealer" is any person who sells,
gives away, buys or takes in trade for the purpose of resale more than five bicycles in any one
calendar year, whether or not such bicycles are owned by such person. A bicycle dealer also
includes agents or employees of such person.
Prior Code 5- 6; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
Section 10. 68.060 Change in Ownership or Address
Whenever any person sells or otherwise disposes of a bicycle, he shall endorse upon
the registration certificate previously issued for such bicycle, a written transfer of same, setting
forth the name, address, telephone number of the transferee, date of transfer and signature of the
transferor, and shall deliver the registration certificate so endorsed to the license collector within
ten days of such event.
Prior Code 5- 7; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
Section 10.68.070 Transfer of License
Any person who purchases or otherwise acquires possession of a bicycle shall, within
ten days of taking possession, apply to the license inspector for the transfer of the license to his
name.
Prior Code 5- 8; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75)
Section 10. 68.080 Bicycle License Fee
A. License fees for registration and licensing of a bicycle shall be paid in
accordance with the following schedule:
Fee
1. Unexpired term of license:
Less than two years 1. 00
Over two years, but less than three years 2. 00
Full term of three years 3. 00
2. For replacement of a lost or destroyed
Bicycle license indicia 1. 00
3. For transfer of ownership 1. 00
B. All fees shall be paid in advance.
Prior Code 5- 9; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75)
10. 68 (2) Vista 2/ 27/ 15)
Vita Municipal Code
Section 10. 68.090 Destroying Bicycle Identification
It is unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove, destroy, alter, tamper with or
mutilate any bicycle license indicia, registration form, serial number or identification marks on any
bicycle frame during the time such indicia is operative. However, nothing in this chapter prohibits
the license collector from stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial number
can be found or on which said number is illegible or insufficient for identification purposes.
Prior Code 5- 10; Ord. No. 75- 36, Amended 2/ 9/ 75; Ord. No. 76- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 76)
Section 10. 68. 100 Riding on Sidewalks
A. Purpose and Intent. The City Council of the City of Vista recognizes the risks
posed to pedestrians by bicyclists operating on public sidewalks. The City Council also
recognizes that California state law governing the operation of bicycles on city streets does not
apply to bicyclists operating on sidewalks. The City Council is also mindful of the inherent danger
of allowing unsupervised children to operate bicycles on city streets.
It is the City Council' s intent in enacting this ordinance to minimize the risk of injury
to pedestrians caused by bicyclists operating on public sidewalks and to promote the health,
safety and welfare of the community.
B. Bicycle Restriction. It is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk in the city, with the exception of locations included in the City' s Bicycle Master Plan
with proper signage and striping as approved by the City' s Traffic Engineer. Law enforcement
officers shall be exempt from the provision of this section when in the performance of their
duties.
Ord. No. 98- 12, Added, 11/ 10/ 98; Ord. No. 2015- 3, Amended, 1/ 27/ 15)
10. 68 (3) Vista 2/ 27/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 10.69
Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited
Sections:
10. 69.010 Purpose and Intent
10. 69.020 Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited - Posted
Private Property
10. 69.030 Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited - Posted
School Property
10. 69.040 Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited - Public
Property
10. 69.050 Interference with Pedestrians and Traffic
10. 69.060 Protective Headgear Required
Section 10.69.010 Purpose and Intent
The City Council of the City of Vista is concerned with the safety of its citizens and the
protection of public and private property. The City Council recognizes that skateboarding,
roller blading, roller skating, and similar activities are very popular activities. They also
recognize that skateboards, roller blades, and roller skates are a popular form of
transportation for youth. The City Council also recognizes that such activities are potentially
dangerous, not only to the skaters, but also to spectators and pedestrians. Skateboarding
and roller blading tricks increase the potential for injuries and damage private and public
property improvements. Such activities may increase property owner' s insurance and property
maintenance costs.
It is the City Council' s purpose and intent in enacting this ordinance to minimize the
risk of injury to persons and reduce the damage to property, while at the same time allowing
skateboarders and roller skaters to participate responsibly in the recreational activity.
Ord. No. 98- 11, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 98)
Section 10.69.020 Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited -
Posted Private Property
It is unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller blades, roller skates, coasters,
scooters or any other similar form of non- motorized wheeled device designed for rapid
movement on private property open to the public in an office- professional zone; in a C- 1, C- 2
or C- 3 commercial zone; or in a mobile home park where signs prohibiting such activity are
posted by the owner of the property. For the purpose of this section, whenever a propertyowner
has properly posted the property, the prohibition shall extend to include any public
sidewalk constructed within the private property or immediately adjacent to the private property
boundary.
Ord. No. 98- 11, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 98)
Section 10. 69.030 Skateboarding, Roller blading and Roller Skating Prohibited -
Posted School Property
It is unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller blades, roller skates, coasters,
scooters or any other similar form of non- motorized wheeled device designed for rapid
movement on public school property located within the city of Vista when the school district has
10. 69 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
enacted a policy prohibiting such activities and posted signs on school grounds. For the purposes
of this section, public school property shall include any public sidewalks constructed within the
school property or immediately adjacent to the school property boundary.
Ord. No. 98- 11, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 98)
Section 10. 69.040 Skateboarding, Roller Blading and Roller Skating Prohibited -
Public Property
It is unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller blades, roller skates, coasters,
scooters, or any other similar form of non- motorized wheeled device designed for rapid
movement on any public property where signs have been posted in addition to the following
locations:
A. On any sidewalk, public street, public parking lot, or public property in the Central
Business District. The Central Business District is defined as that area of the city bounded on the
west by North and South Santa Fe Avenue between Eucalyptus Avenue and Jefferson Avenue
Vista Village Drive); bounded on the north by Jefferson Avenue ( Vista Village Drive) between
North Santa Fe Avenue and Palm Drive, and also by Palm Drive between Jefferson Avenue
Vista Village Drive) and East Vista Way ( Main Street); bounded on the east by East Vista Way
Main Street) between Palm Drive and South Citrus Avenue, and also by South Citrus Avenue
between East Vista Way ( Main Street) and Eucalyptus Avenue; and bounded on the south by
Eucalyptus Avenue between South Citrus Avenue and South Santa Fe Avenue. The Central
Business District is considered to include the roadway and sidewalks on both sides of all
boundary streets as well as for all streets located internally to the boundary streets.
B. The Vista City Hall and surrounding sidewalks, landscape barriers, and parking
lot.
C. The Vista Branch of the San Diego County Public Library at 700 Eucalyptus
Avenue and surrounding sidewalks, landscape barriers, and parking lot.
D. The Wildwood Public Park and the surrounding sidewalks, landscape barriers,
internal roads, bridges and parking lot.
E. In any public drainage facility, culvert, ditch or channel, tennis court, or outdoor
basketball court.
Ord. No. 98- 11, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 98)
Section 10.69.050 Interference with Pedestrians and Traffic
A. Any person upon a skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, coaster, scooter or
other similar form of non- motorized wheeled device shall exercise due caution and shall yield
the right- of-way to and not interfere with pedestrians on any sidewalk or public right- of-way.
B. No person shall ride skateboards, roller skates, roller blades, coaster or scooter,
or other similar form of non- motorized wheeled device on any public right- of-way in such a
manner as to interfere with or prevent the lawful use of a public right- of-way by vehicular
traffic.
Ord. No. 98- 11, Enacted, 11/ 10/ 98)
Section 10.69.060 Protective Headgear Required
A. Prohibition
1. It is prohibited and unlawful for anyone to operate a skateboard, rollerskates,
roller- blades, scooter, or similar-type wheeled vehicle on any public sidewalks or
streets or on any public property, where permitted, unless that person is wearing properly
fitted and fastened protective headgear. For the purpose of this section, the term " Protective
10. 69 (2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Headgear" shall mean a safety helmet that meets the standards of the American National
Standards Institute ( ANSI Z 90.4 Bicycle Helmet Standards) the Snell Memorial Foundation
Standard for Protective Headgear for use in Bicycling, or the American Society for Testing
Materials (ASTM F- 1447 Standard).
2. A parent or guardian is responsible for requiring that a child under the
age of 18 years wears protective headgear while skateboarding, roller-skating, roller- blading,
riding a scooter, or similar wheeled vehicle on any public sidewalk or street or public property,
where permitted, in the City of Vista. As used in this chapter, " Guardian" shall mean an adult
who legally has the care and management of a person under the age of 18.
B. Enforcement
1. Criminal Citation. Any person violating this provision of this chapter is
guilty of an infraction and upon conviction shall be punished according to the provisions of
Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
2. Administrative Citation. Any person authorized to enforce this provision
may issue an administrative citation in lieu of a criminal citation pursuant to the Vista
Municipal Code. Enforcing officials are authorized to issue the administrative citations and
confiscate the skateboard, roller-skates, roller- blades, scooter, or similar-type wheeled
vehicle to be held until such time as an Administrative Hearing is conducted. The use of this
remedy by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this code.
C. Administrative Citation Penalty. Any person violating this provision of this
chapter is subject to an administrative citation penalty not to exceed $ 50 and required to
attend a safety awareness course. Additionally, any person under the age of 18 must have a
parent or guardian attend the safety awareness course along with the offender.
D. Administrative Citation Hearing. At the time of the Administrative Hearing, the
offender shall deposit $ 50 with the Administrative Hearing Officer. Upon payment of the $ 50
deposit, the skateboard, roller-skates, roller- blades, scooter, or similar-type wheeled vehicle
shall be returned to the offender. The offender shall complete the course within 30 days of
the Administrative Hearing. Within 30 days of the Administrative Hearing and upon written
request to the Director of Administrative Services for the City of Vista or his designee, the
offender shall be entitled to one extension not to exceed 30 days from the date of the receipt
of the request. Upon successful completion of the course, the City shall refund to the offender
25.
Ord. No. 2000- 8, Enacted, 11/ 14/ 00)
10. 69 (3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Title 11
RESERVED
Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 04
Trees and Shrubs in Public Places
Sections:
12. 04.010 Damage or Removal Prohibited
12. 04.020 Application for Pruning or Trimming
Section 12. 04.010 Damage or Removal Prohibited
No person shall trim, prune, cut, break, deface, burn or remove any tree, shrub, or flower
growing in any public place within the city, or damage or remove any protective structure around
any tree, shrub or flower unless authorized, in writing, to do so by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27- 5. 1. 1; Ord. No. 81- 20, Amended 3/ 9/ 81)
Section 12. 04.020 Application for Pruning or Trimming
Upon application, a permit may be granted to remove limbs or branches extending over
private property or interfering with overhead utility lines. Such work shall be done at the sole
cost and expense of the applicant. No permit shall be issued unless a good and sufficient reason
is stated on the face of the permit application for doing so.
Prior Code 27- 5. 1. 2; Ord. No. 81- 20, Amended 3/ 9/ 81)
12. 04 ( l) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12.06
Skateboard Park Regulations
Sections:
12. 06. 010 Helmet, Elbow Pads and Knee Pads Required
Section 12.06.010 Helmet, Elbow Pads and Knee Pads Required
Any person riding a skateboard or wearing in- line skates at a City owned
skateboarding facility must wear a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.
Ord. No. 98- 15, Enacted, 12/ 08/ 98)
12. 06 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12.08
Park and Recreation Area Use Regulations
Sections:
12. 08.010 Certain Acts Regulated and Prohibited
12. 08.020 Parking Time Limits
12. 08.030 Use of Toilet Facilities
12. 08.040 Obedience to Rules and Regulations - Rules to be Posted
12. 08.050 Obedience to Rules and Regulations - Exceptions
Section 12. 08.010 Certain Acts Regulated and Prohibited
No person shall, within the limits of park or recreation facilities within the city, do any of
the following acts:
AA. Smoking Prohibited.
1. No person shall smoke within the boundary of any City park, on any City
trail or in any public parking lot immediately adjacent to the City park or City trail.
2. No person shall dispose of any waste within the boundary of any City
park, City trail, or any public parking lot immediately adjacent to the City park or City trail, which
has resulted from smoking, except in a designated container.
3. No person shall chew tobacco or tobacco- related product within 50 feet of
any playground or tot lot in any City park. The distance shall be measured from the edge of any
concrete or wood border of the playground or tot lot or, if no border exists, from the nearest
piece of playground or tot lot equipment.
4. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:
a. Playground" shall mean any recreational area within a City park
designed to be used by children that has play equipment installed.
b. Tot Lot" means a designated play area within a public park for
the use by children under five years of age.
C. The terms " Smoke" and " Smoking" as used in this subsection
are as defined in Chapter 8. 12 of the Vista Municipal Code.
d. Boundary" shall mean the interior edge of the sidewalk, but not
including the sidewalk, surrounding any City park. For the City trail, the boundary shall be the
edge of the trail so marked. For those areas where no sidewalk exists, the boundary shall be the
fence- line or any other point designated as the boundary for the City park or trail.
A. Animals. Bring, leave, or turn loose any animal, reptile or bird, domesticated or
wild, of any kind in or upon any park or recreation property; provided that this section does not
apply to:
1. Horses being led or ridden upon any designated roads or paths therein.
2. Dogs when fastened to a leash or line not more than eight feet in length
of suitable strength, except as authorized by Chapter 12. 14 of the Vista Municipal Code.
3. Dogs which are in special areas of park or recreation facilities designated
and posted by the Director of Recreation and Community Services as dog training areas and so
long as the regulations of the Director of Recreation and Community Services with respect to
the use of such are complied with.
B. Firearms, Fireworks. Discharge any firearm, firecracker, or other fireworks
without the written consent of the City Manager; provided, that as to the discharging of any
firearm, this section does not apply to any authorized peace officer or employee of the City while
in the performance of his/ her duties.
12. 08 ( l) Vista 9/ 25/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Tree, Shrubbery, Lawns. Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or
plant or injure the bark, or pick the flowers of seeds, of any tree or plant. Nor shall any person
attach a rope, wire, or other device to any tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise
disturb park areas, or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any
area.
D. Defacing Property. Cut, break, deface, or damage any building, monument, rock,
fountain, fence, bench, table, or other structure, apparatus, or property.
E. Refuse, Trash. Have brought in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse, or other trash. No
such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere
on the ground thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided;
where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
F. Bathing, Water Pollution. Bathe in the waters of any lake, pond, pool or stream,
or any sprinkler; or throw into or deposit any dirt, filth or foreign matter in the waters of any lake,
pond, pool or stream or in like manner pollute the same; provided, that nothing contained in this
section shall be construed to prohibit swimming in any municipal swimming pool in accordance
with the rules and regulations provided therefore.
G. Hunting, Fishing, and Firearms. Hunt, trap, fish, or pursue wildlife at any time.
No person shall use, carry or possess firearms of any description, or air rifles, spring guns, bow
and arrows, slings or any other form of weapons potentially harmful to wildlife and dangerous to
human safety, or any instrument that can be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of
fishing or trapping device. Shooting into park areas from beyond park boundaries is forbidden.
H. Cruelty to Animals. Take, kill, wound, disturb, or maltreat any bird, reptile, or
animal, either wild or domesticated, unless the same has been declared noxious by the City
Manager and a permit is issued for the killing of such noxious animals.
I. Fires and Bonfires. Kindle or allow to be kindled any fire or bonfire, or throw
upon the ground a lighted match, lighted cigar or cigarette, or anything that would be liable to
set fire to any grass, tree, shrub, building or other property; provided that nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the kindling of fires in barbeques, fireplaces or similar facilities
provided by the Department of Recreation and Community Services.
J. Overnight Day Camping Without a Permit. Camping is prohibited in all parks and
recreational areas; provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any person
from being or remaining in any park while in attendance at any function, permission for the
holding of which has been previously granted by the Director of Recreation and Community
Services.
Camping is defined as the use of the park or recreational facilities for living
accommodation purposes such as sleeping activities, or preparations to sleep ( including the
laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal belongings ( including,
but not limited to, clothing, sleeping bags, bedrolls, blankets, sheets, luggage, backpacks,
kitchen utensils, cookware, and similar material) or making any fire or using any tents or other
structure for sleeping or carrying on cooking activities, or living in a parked vehicle. These
activities constitute camping when it reasonably appears, in light of all the circumstances, that
the participants in conducting activities, are in fact using the areas as a living accommodation
regardless of the intent of the participants or the nature of any other activities in which they may
also be engaging. This section does not prohibit persons from using blankets to picnic.
K. Sale of Merchandise. Sell or offer for sale any goods, wares, merchandise, or
articles whatsoever without the written consent of the Director of Recreation and Community
Services.
L. Solicitation for Business. Practice, carry on, conduct, or solicit for any trade,
occupation, business or profession without the written consent of the Director of Recreation and
12. 08 ( 2) Vista 9/ 25/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Community Services.
M. Riots, Indecent Conduct. Be guilty of any indecent conduct or indulge in any
riotous, boisterous, or threatening behavior.
N. Ball Playing. Play any game of ball or engage in any sport, except at such
places and at such times as are designated for such purposes by the Director of Recreation and
Community Services.
O. Bicycles, Skateboards, Scooters. Ride a bicycle, tricycle, motorcycle, motorcycle
chopper, skateboards, scooters, or any other vehicle on any path, trail, walk, or any recreation
facility, other than those designated for the same.
P. Speed of Vehicles. Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed exceeding ten miles
an hour, except upon such roads as the Director of Recreation and Community Services may
designate, by posted signs.
Q. Parking Vehicles, Hitching Horses. Leave or hitch any horse, or leave or park
any automobile, motorcycle or other self-driven vehicle on any park or recreation property,
except at such places as are provided for and designated for such purposes.
R. Cleaning, Repairing Vehicles. Clean, wash or polish, or make other than
emergency repairs upon any automobile, motorcycle, or self-driven vehicle.
S. Trucks. Commercial vehicles, except at such places and at such times as are
designated for such purposes by the Director of Recreation and Community Services.
T. Obstructing Traffic. Obstruct the free travel of any vehicle or pedestrians over
any of the walks, roads, or avenues of any park or recreation property.
U. Park Equipment, Tools. Move or remove from one location to another or destroy
any equipment, tools, cones, barricades, safety markers, implements, or materials used by the
Parks and Community Services Department, provided that this section does not apply to any
employee of the Department of Recreation and Community Services while in the performance of
his duties.
V. Tampering with Utilities. Open or close any valves or switches pertaining to the
water or electric service or other utilities.
W. Model Airplane Flying. Prohibited in all park and recreation areas except in
areas designated for such purposes.
X. Glass Beverage Containers. Carry on or have in their possession, any glass
beverage container without the written permission of the Director of Recreation and Community
Services.
Y. Alcoholic Beverages. Consume any alcoholic beverage or possess any opened
or unsealed container holding an alcoholic beverage, except as specifically allowed by a special
permit or other City approval issues in accordance with Section 8. 68. 030 of this code.
Prior Code 20- 12; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71; Ord. No. 82- 40, Amended 11/ 8/ 82; Ord. No. 87- 2,
Amended 1/ 26/ 87; Ord. No. 97- 19, Amended, 10/ 14/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 18, Amended 10/ 25/ 01; Ord. No.
2003- 12, Amended 5/ 13/ 03; Ord. No. 2005-22, Repealed & Replaced 9/ 13/ 05; Ord. No. 2009- 17,
Amended 9/ 22/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 13, Amended 6/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2020- 10, Amended 8/ 25/ 20)
Section 12. 08.020 Parking Time Limits
Whenever signs are posted, no person shall park a vehicle within the limits of any city
park or recreation facility within the city for a period in excess of four hours from 8: 00 a. m. to
sunset, except by permit issued by the Director of Recreation and Community Services.
Prior Code 20- 12; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71; Ord. No. 2003- 6, Amended 4/ 08/ 03; Ord. No.
2005- 22, Repealed & Replaced 9/ 13/ 05)
12. 08 ( 3) Vista 9/ 25/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 08.030 Use of Toilet Facilities
No male person shall use any restroom facility set apart for women, and no female
person shall use any restroom facility set apart for men; provided that this section does not
apply to children under eight years accompanied by their father, mother, or guardian.
Prior Code 20- 11; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71; Ord. No. 2005- 22, Repealed & Replaced 9/ 13/ 05)
Section 12. 08.040 Obedience to Rules and Regulations  Rules to be Posted
No person within the limits of any municipal park or recreation facility shall do any act
contrary to the rules established by the Department of Recreation and Community Services for
the use of such facility; provided that such rules shall be conspicuously posted in parks and
recreation areas.
Prior Code 20- 13; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71; Ord. No. 2005- 22, Repealed & Replaced 9/ 13/ 05)
Section 12. 08.050 Obedience to Rules and Regulations  Exceptions
A. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the Director of Recreation
and Community Services from doing those acts which are necessary or proper for the
maintenance, improvement or betterment of any of the city parks or recreation facilities, and
nothing shall be construed to prevent any employee or agent of the City from doing anything
that, in the opinion of the City Council, may be thought necessary or proper for interests of the
City.
B. The Director may withhold approval for Park and Recreation Commission review
if interpretation is necessary.
Prior Code 20- 14; Ord. No. 71- 11, Amended 4/ 19/ 71; Ord. No. 2005- 22, Repealed & Replaced 9/ 13/ 05)
12. 08 ( 4) Vista 9/ 25/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 12
Permits for Block Parties and Street Events
Sections:
12. 12. 010 Applicability
12. 12. 020 Definitions
12. 12. 030 Block Parties - Limitations
12. 12. 040 Block Party or Street Event Permits - Application - Information Required -
Timing - Issuance
12. 12. 050 Late Applications
12. 12. 060 Permits - Standards for Issuance or Denial - Notification
12. 12. 070 Appeals and Reconsideration
12. 12. 080 Street Event Permit - Content and Conditions - Rules and Regulations
12. 12. 090 Revocation of Permit
12. 12. 100 Indemnification
12. 12. 110 Insurance - Exemption
12. 12. 120 Fees
12. 12. 130 Removal
12. 12. 140 Administrative Rules
12. 12. 150 Regulation Generally
12. 12. 160 Permit Violation - Unwelcome Participation
12. 12. 170 Violation - Penalty
12. 12. 180 Appeal of Denial, Suspension or Revocation
12. 12. 190 Appeal Rights - Fees
12. 12. 200 Council Action on Appeal
12. 12. 210 Duties of Permittee - Chairperson to Carry Permit
12. 12. 220 Regulations Generally
12. 12. 230 Permit Violation - Unwelcome Participation
12. 12. 240 Violation - Penalty
Section 12. 12.010 Applicability
A. No person shall conduct, cause to be conducted, participate in, engage in, hold,
manage, employ, permit or allow another to conduct an event which requires street closure or
other traffic control measures on any public street, sidewalk or alley within the city, without first
obtaining a permit, as provided in this chapter. This chapter shall not apply to any event which
requires street closure or other traffic control measures on any private streets. Such events on a
private street shall be governed by the Temporary Use Permit process under Chapter 18. 74 of
the Vista Development Code.
B. Issuance of a permit under this chapter does not exempt the permittee from, or
constitute compliance with:
1. Any requirements relating to the use of parks or facilities established by
the City.
2. Local, state or federal laws or regulations regarding the service or
consumption of food or alcoholic beverages.
3. Noise standards set by federal, state, or municipal law.
C. Every permit issued under this chapter is expressly conditioned on compliance
with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Prior Code 26A- 1; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Definitions- Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed &
Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
12. 12 ( l) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 12.020 Definitions
A. Block Party" means a gathering, sponsored solely by owners, residents or
tenants of properties fronting a local street, which causes a closure of the entire street, or a
portion thereof, to vehicular traffic and use of the street for the gathering.
B. City Manager" shall mean the City Manager of the City of Vista and/ or any
designee or designees of the City Manager, except as context dictates otherwise.
C. Local Streets" mean those streets defined in the circulation element of the
Vista General Plan as local streets.
D. Sound-amplifying System" means any system of electrical hookup or
connection, loudspeaker system or equipment, sound- amplifying system, and any apparatus,
equipment, device, instrument or machine designed for or intended to be used for the purpose
of amplifying the sound or increasing the volume of the human voice, musical tone, vibration or
sound wave.
E. Street Event" includes any march, demonstration, assembly, parade, festival,
street fair, concert or any other gathering which, wholly or partly, takes place in the public street,
sidewalk or right- of-way, and which may impede, obstruct, or interfere with the normal flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. "Street Event" does not include " Block Party."
Prior Code 26A-2; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Permit Required- Ord. No. 2002-22, Repealed &
Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.030 Block Parties  Limitations
A. Local streets not exceeding one city block, or 300 feet, whichever is less; or one
intersection may be temporarily closed for a Block Party.
B. At least two-thirds of the area abutting the street or intersection to be closed is
residentially zoned and the purpose of the Block Party is consistent with residential zoning
regulations.
Prior Code 26A-2. 1; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Permit Exception- Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed &
Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.040 Block Party or Street Event Permits - Application -
Information Required - Timing - Issuance
A. Application for a permit for a Block Party or Street Event shall be made to the
City Manager.
B. Application for a Street Event that involves the use of pyrotechnics or involves
the closure or partial closure of an arterial or collector street as defined in the City of Vista
General Plan or the re- routing of public transportation shall be made at least ten business days
prior to the Street Event.
C. Applications for a Block Party and all other Street Events shall be made at least
five business days prior to the Block Party or Street Event.
D. The application for such permit shall be made in writing on a form approved by
the City Manager. In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper policing of
the Block Party or Street Event, including the security of participants, and to ensure that the
event is conducted in a lawful manner, the application shall contain the following information, as
applicable:
1. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant, including
photo identification. If the Block Party or Street Event will be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized head of such organization shall also be supplied. Where a
12. 12 (2) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Block Party or Street Event will be conducted for, on behalf of or by an organization, the
organization will be considered a co- applicant.
2. The name, address, and telephone number of the person( s) who is ( are)
or will be responsible for the conduct of the Block Party or Street Event and effective means by
which to reach them during the event, such as cell phone and pager numbers and likely location
during the Block Party or Street Event.
3. A description of the Block Party or Street Event, including its purpose.
These requirements are intended to allow the City to anticipate and provide for additional police
services, if necessary, to protect the safety of participants and bystanders.
4. The date(s) of the Block Party or Street Event.
5. The estimated times that the Block Party or Street Event will start and
terminate, including assembly and disassembly involving the use of public property.
6. The route of the Street Event, if applicable, the maximum length of any
parade and whether the Street Event will occupy all or only a portion of the streets proposed to
be traveled, if applicable.
7. The locations, if any, of the assembly area and dispersal areas of any
Street Event.
8. As far as is reasonably practicable, the approximate number of persons,
the number, kind and location of vehicles, animals, musical instruments, sound units, and any
other equipment that produces sound or noise during the Street Event that will be involved in
the Street Event, and whether an amplified- sound system is proposed.
9. The number and location of portable sanitation facilities, trash receptacles
and other equipment and services necessary to conduct the Street Event and other equipment
and services proposed for participants, if applicable.
10. A description of arrangements that have been made for first aid or
emergency medical services, or both, if applicable.
11. Any proposed reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the safe
and orderly conduct of the Block Party or Street Event and the movement of persons, in
furtherance of the goals and purposes of the Block Party or Street Event. Such proposed rules
may include, but are not limited to, prohibition or other regulation of the use of skates and
wheeled vehicles, other than wheelchairs, if necessary for the safety or orderly circulation of
persons attending the Block Party or Street Event. For purposes of this subdivision, " wheeled
vehicles" includes, but is not limited to, bicycles, tricycles, scooters, skateboards or any
motorized vehicles of any sort. For purposes of this subdivision, " skates" includes roller skates,
roller blades and in- line skates.
12. Insurance and surety bond information, if applicable.
13. Such other information, in conformity with the requirements of this
Chapter, as the City Manager may reasonably require.
Prior Code 26A-4; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Permit Application for special events, parades,
dances - locations for concerts- Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.050 Late Applications
A. Any application received after the deadlines established in Section 12. 12. 040 is
a late application. The City Manager shall accept a late application if he/ she finds that:
1. The proposed Block Party or Street Event is in response to an
occurrence whose timing did not reasonably allow the applicant to file a timely application; and
2. The imposition of the time limitations would place an unreasonable
restriction on the free speech rights of the applicant.
B. When the City Manager finds both of the above conditions to exist, he/she shall
accept the application and process it in accordance with this chapter, unless it does not meet
12. 12 (3) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
the criteria set forth in Section 12. 12. 040 or there is insufficient time for the City to make
necessary preparations for traffic control or other public safety matters prior to the proposed
date.
Prior Code 26A-5. 1; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Application requirements for parade permit-Ord.
No. 2002-22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.060 Permits - Standards for Issuance or Denial - Notification
A. The City Manager or his or her designee shall issue a permit for a Block Party or
a Street Event unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
1. The application is incomplete for failure to provide the information
required by Sections 12. 12. 030 or 12. 12. 040.
2. The information contained in the application, including supplemental
information, if any, is found to be false in any material respect; the purpose of the Block Party or
Street Event is contrary to law; and/ or the applicant has failed to meet the City requirements for
a permit.
3. A prior application for a Block Party or Street Event to be held at the
same time and place has been received or granted.
4. The Block Party or Street Event will unduly interfere with the public
transportation system, or vehicular ingress to, egress from, or travel on a freeway, state
designated highway, or major arterial or collector street of the City; or
5. The Block Party or Street Event will unreasonably interfere with fire or
police protection, including presenting substantial or unwarranted traffic or safety hazards.
6. One or more of the applicants or persons whose name is shown on the
application was also named on an application for a Block Party, Street Event, Park Event, or
Major Park Event in Vista that resulted in a violation of this chapter or Chapter 12. 13 within the
prior 12 months or was responsible for a Block Party, Street Event or an event in a park in any
other jurisdiction that resulted in comparable problems prohibited by local law in that jurisdiction
within the last 12 months.
7. The applicant declines to provide the City with an executed agreement
promising to comply with the conditions imposed on the Block Party or Street Event.
B. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the action of the City Manager or his
or her designee with respect to the application as early as possible, but no less than two
business days prior to the date of the proposed event, unless the application was made late, in
which case notification shall be given as soon as reasonably possible and by any reasonable
means.
C. If a permit is denied, the written notice shall set forth reasons explaining the
denial and the process of appealing the decision.
D. If a permit is denied pursuant to the criteria set forth in this chapter, because the
proposed time, route, or assembly and dispersal sites are unacceptable, the denial shall contain
a statement of alternative acceptable times, routes and sites.
Prior Code 26A-5. 2; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Application requirements for special event- Ord.
No. 2002-22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.070 Appeals and Reconsideration
A. An applicant may appeal the denial or conditional approval of an application
made pursuant to this chapter by a designee or designees of the City Manager to the City
Manager. The City Manager shall act upon said appeal within two business days of its receipt,
unless the applicant and the City Manager agree on a different period for review.
12. 12 (4) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. An applicant may request the City Manager to reconsider his or her decision to
deny an application whether made on appeal or otherwise. The request for reconsideration
shall be made in writing and must explain why the applicant believes that the denial or
conditional approval is unlawful. Upon receipt of the request for reconsideration, the City
Manager shall promptly reconsider the decision within two business days, unless the applicant
and the City Manager agree on a different period for review. The decision of the City Manager
upon reconsideration is final.
Prior Code 26A-5. 3; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Additional Application Requirements- Ord. No.
2002- 22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.080 Street Event Permit - Content and Conditions - Rules and Regulations
A. A Block Party or Street Event permit shall contain the information given in the
application and shall impose reasonable time, place, and manner conditions such that the Block
Party or Street Event will not pose a traffic or safety hazard or unreasonably interfere with fire or
police protection services. The conditions imposed shall be in conformity with the requirements
of this chapter and shall provide only for such modification of the application' s proposed Block
Party or Street Event as is necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter. Such conditions
may include requiring the applicant to:
1. Maintain a 24 foot wide emergency access lane at all times.
2. Provide first aid stations and teams within the closed- off area to provide
emergency medical aid to participants.
3. Provide barricades to close off the necessary streets.
4. Provide sufficient signs and directional arrows to divert traffic and arrange
for North County Transit bus detours, subject to the approval of the traffic engineer.
5. Provide monitors for crowd control and establish liaison with the City
representative concerning the role of the monitors.
6. Distribute flyers throughout the surrounding areas in advance of the Block
Party or Street Event, notifying the affected residents and business people of the street closure.
7. Clean all debris and litter from the street and sidewalk area and empty all
trash receptacles within the event area within four hours after the conclusion of the Block Party
or Street Event.
8. Obey all applicable local, state and federal laws.
9. If alcohol is to be sold at the Street Event, an appropriate license shall be
obtained from the Department of Alcohol Beverage Control, responsible beverage service
practices shall be followed.
10. Pay the City' s cost for providing private security services for the Street
Event.
11. A requirement that the applicant comply with its proposed rules for the
Street Event, as reasonably and lawfully modified by the City.
B. All permits shall include the following conditions, except to the extent that the
condition would be contrary to law:
1. The applicant shall agree to bear the costs and compensate the City for
incidental costs, such as clean- up expenses, damage to the public property and increased fire
and/ or sheriffs protection expenses. The applicant shall deposit with the City a security deposit
as determined by the City Council. Any amount not required by the City shall be refunded to the
applicant after the calculation of actual costs incurred subsequent to the Street Event.
2. The applicant shall provide the City with satisfactory evidence of
insurance in advance of the Street Event as required by this chapter and any consistent rules or
regulations adopted by the City Manager.
12. 12 (5) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The applicant shall ensure that participants and spectators of the Street
Event abide by the rules and regulations of this Municipal Code, state law, federal law, and any
rules established by the applicant to govern the Street Event.
4. The County Sheriff's Department may stop a Street Event at any time
that the Sheriff's Department determines that the public safety is in jeopardy.
C. City staff will assist applicants in meeting the conditions imposed by this section.
D. Applicants shall carry the permit during the Street Event and shall show it, upon
demand, to any City employee or Sheriff's Deputy.
E. Applicants may not limit the free distribution of literature at the Street Event by
members of the public who have no formal or direct relationship with the applicant with respect
to the presentation of the Street Event.
Prior Code 26A-6; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Application Processing Procedure- Ord. No. 2002-
22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.090 Revocation of Permit
The City Manager may revoke a permit for a Block Party or Street Event at any time, if
he/ she determines that:
A. Grounds exist which would have justified denial of the permit if those grounds
had been known at the time of the application or the implications of those grounds had been
fully understood at the time of the application.
B. The Block Party or Street Event will endanger the public health, safety, or welfare
because of real or threatened disaster, public calamity, riot, or other emergency that law
enforcement officials would be unable to prevent.
C. The applicant has failed to satisfy a condition of the permit in advance of the
Block Party or Street Event, including providing the City with required evidence of insurance.
D. An actual sponsor of the Block Party or Street Event was not shown on the
application.
Prior Code 26A-7; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Conditions for Granting Permit-Ord. No. 2002-22,
Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.100 Indemnification
A. The applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of Vista, its officers,
agents and employees, from any and all claims, causes of action, penalties, losses, expenses
including reasonable attorneys' fees) and any other liability for injuries or damage to persons or
property resulting from the manner in which the Block Party or Street Event is conducted or
which were caused by the omissions or authorized acts of the applicant' s officers, agents or
employees.
B. The permittee for a Street Event shall ensure that each vendor participating at a
Street Event executes an indemnity agreement with the City and delivers such agreement to the
City at least two business days prior to the Street Event.
C. If City property is damaged by reasons of applicant's use, event or activity, the
applicant shall reimburse the City for the actual replacement or repair cost of the City property.
Prior code 26A-8; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Grounds for Denial of Permit-Ord. No. 2002- 22,
Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.110 Insurance - Exemption
A. Pursuant to rules and regulations developed by the City Manager, an applicant
must provide the City with insurance to reasonably protect the City against any liability that may
12. 12 (6) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
arise from the Street Event.
B. The amount of insurance required shall not be based on the existence or content
of any expression involved in the event, or on the expected reactions of observers.
C. If insurance is required pursuant to this section, a certificate of insurance shall be
provided to the City and must be approved as to form and sufficiency by the City no later than
two business days before the event. If the applicant is unable to obtain insurance or does not
provide the City with the certificate of insurance, the City Manager may obtain such insurance
on behalf of the permit applicant and charge the permit applicant for the cost.
D. No permit applicant shall be required to comply with the insurance requirement of
this section if the applicant produces satisfactory evidence that insurance requirement violates
the First Amendment because: ( 1) it is impossible to obtain; or ( 2) it would be so financially
burdensome that the insurance requirement would preclude the proposed Street Event from
occurring.
Prior Code 26A-8. 1; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Additional Grounds for Denial of Permit-Ord. No.
2002- 22, Repealed & Replaced 09/ 24/ 02)
Section 12. 12.120 Fees
A. The City Council may establish by resolution the fees that shall be charged for
permits issued under this ordinance. Such fees may include the cost of monitoring events
pursuant to Section 12. 12. 080. A, provided that no fees shall be collected if the collection would
conflict with applicable law.
B. If an applicant is unable to hold or conduct a Block Party or Street Event and the
applicant submits a written request for the refund of such fees to the City Manager' s office within
ten days after the date that the Block Party or Street Event was to have been held or conducted,
the City Manager may authorize the refund of any fees that are not necessary to reimburse the
City' s expenses in preparing for the Block Party or Street Event, except for non- refundable
application fees, if any.
C. Any indigent person who cannot apply for a permit because of an inability arising
from such indigence to pay the application fee shall not be required to pay the fee. Applications
for indigent status shall be made upon application for the permit and shall be accompanied by
such relevant information and documentation as is reasonably necessary to verify indigence.
For purposes of this section an indigent person is one who is eligible for county relief pursuant
to Sections 17000 et seq. of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
Prior Code 26A-9; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Reconsideration of Application- Ord. No. 2002- 22,
Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.130 Removal
Any person who refuses to comply with the rules for a Street Event approved under
Section 12. 12. 040. D. 12 may be removed from the Street Event.
Prior Code 26A- 10; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Contents of Permit- Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed
Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.140 Administrative Rules
The City Manager may establish rules to implement this chapter including rules to
designate a committee to process permits in whole or in part and any other rules which are not
in conflict which this chapter.
Prior Code 26A- 10. 1; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Additional Required Information- Ord. No. 2002-
22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
12. 12 (7) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 12.150 Regulations Generally
A. Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any Street Event or with any person or with vehicle or animal participating or used
in a Street Event.
B. Driving Through Street Event. No driver of a vehicle, streetcar, or trackless
trolley shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a Street Event when such
vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a Street Event.
C. Parking on Street Event Route. The Director of Public Works shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a
highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a Street Event. The Director of Public
Works shall post signs to such effect, and it is unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for parking in a street
unposted in violation of this chapter.
Prior Code 26A- 11; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Consideration of Late Applications - Ord. No.
2002- 22, Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.160 Permit Violation - Unwelcome Participation
No person shall knowingly join or participate in any Street Event in violation of any of the
terms, conditions or regulations of the permit issued therefore, or knowingly join or participate in
any Street Event without the consent and over the objection of the applicant or in any manner
interfere with the orderly conduct of such event.
Prior Code 26A- 12; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Notice to City Departments - Ord. No. 2002- 22,
Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.170 Violation - Penalty
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or condition of the permit is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of
Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted.
Prior Code 26A- 13; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Suspension or Revocation - Ord. No. 2002- 22,
Repealed & Replaced 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.180 Appeal of Denial, Suspension or Revocation
Prior Code 26A- 14; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.190 Appeal Rights - Fees
Prior Code 26A- 15; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.200 Council Action on Appeal
Prior Code 26A- 16; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.210 Duties of Permittee - Chairperson to Carry Permit
Prior Code 26A- 18; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
12. 12 (8) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 12.220 Regulations Generally
Prior Code 26A- 19; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.230 Permit Violation - Unwelcome Participation
Prior Code 26A-3; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 12.240 Violation - Penalty
Prior Code 26A- 17; Ord. No. 88- 15, Amended 4/ 11/ 88; Ord. No. 2002- 22, Repealed 10/ 08/ 02)
12. 12 (9) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 13
Permits for Park Events
Sections:
12. 13. 010 Applicability - Permit Required for Park Events - Exclusions
12. 13. 020 Definitions
12. 13. 030 Park Event and Major Park Event Permits - Application - Information
Required - Timing
12. 13. 040 Late Applications
12. 13. 050 Permits - Standards for Issuance or Denial - Notification - Regulations
12. 13. 060 Appeal and Reconsideration
12. 13. 070 Park Event Permit - Content - Restrictions - Limitations
12. 13. 080 Cancellation and Revocation of Permits
12. 13. 090 Indemnification - Security Deposits
12. 13. 100 Fees
Section 12. 13.010 Applicability - Permit Required for Park Events - Exclusions
A. This chapter regulates Park Events and Major Park Events as defined herein.
No person shall conduct any Park Event or Major Park Event without first obtaining a permit as
provided in this chapter.
B. Issuance of a permit under this chapter does not exempt the applicant from, or
constitute compliance with:
1. Any requirements relating to the use of parks or facilities established by
the City.
2. Local, state or federal laws or regulations regarding the service or
consumption of food or alcoholic beverages.
3. Noise standards set by federal, state, or municipal law.
C. Every permit issued under this chapter is expressly conditioned on compliance
with all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
D. No Park Event or Major Park Event in a park which is adjacent to an elementary,
middle or high school may involve the sale, service or consumption of alcoholic beverages, at
any time when the recreational facility or program or school is operating.
E. This chapter does not apply to:
1. Events in indoor facilities.
2. City sponsored or City co- sponsored events.
3. Spontaneous, unorganized assemblies which are not sponsored;
organized, promoted or advertised by any person or organization, and do not involve amplified
sound or the consumption of alcohol.
4. Events approved under an agreement between the applicant and City
approved by the City Council which requires the applicant to indemnify the City for any injuries
or damages arising out of the applicant' s event and maintaining general liability insurance.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.020 Definitions
A. " City Manager or designees shall mean the City Manager of the City of Vista
and any designee or designees of the City Manager, except as the context dictates otherwise.
12. 13 ( l) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. " Major Park Event" means park events which:
1. Involve pyrotechnics or other hazardous activities; or
2. Involve a planned or likely attendance of more than 300 persons
C. " Park" shall mean any improved or unimproved land that is owned by the City or
to which the City holds beneficial entitlements, including parking lots. Beneficial entitlements, for
purposes of this subsection, means any right to use land held by the City ( whether by lease,
license or easement) which would preclude the proposed event, absent City approval.
D. " Park Event" means any demonstration, assembly, festival, fair, concert, or any
other gathering of 25 to 300 persons at same time and for the same collective purpose in a
park.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, an event will not qualify as a Park
Event or Major Park Event for purposes of this chapter if it will wholly or partly occur in a public
street or sidewalk and will impede, obstruct, or interfere with the normal flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic. In those instances, a permit is required under Chapter 12. 12 ( Permit for Block
Parties and Street Events), rather than this chapter.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.030 Park Event and Major Park Event Permits - Application
Information Required - Timing
A. Application for a permit for a Park Event or Major Park Event shall be made to
the City Manager or his or her designee.
B. Application for Park Events shall be made at least five business days prior to the
Park Event. Applications for Major Park Events shall be made at least ten business days prior to
the Major Park Event.
C. The application for such permit shall be made in writing on a form approved by
the City Manager. In order that adequate arrangements may be made for the proper policing of
the Park Event or Major Park Event, including the security of participants, and to ensure that the
event is conducted in a lawful manner, the application shall contain the following information, as
applicable:
1. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant(s), including
photo identification. If the Park Event or Major Park Event will be conducted for, on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized head of such organization. Where a Park Event or Major
Park Event will be conducted for, on behalf of or by an organization, the organization will be
considered a co- applicant.
2. A description of the Park Event or Major Park Event, including its purpose
and the number of people expected to attend.
3. The date(s) of the Park Event or Major Park Event;
4. The estimated times that the Park Event or Major Park Event will start
and terminate, including assembly and disassembly involving the use of public property.
5. The number and kind of vehicles, animals, musical instruments, sound
units, and any other equipment that produces sound or noise during the Park Event or Major
Park Event that will be involved in the Park Event, and whether amplified sound is proposed.
6. A statement whether the Park Event will occupy all or only a portion of the
park.
7. The number and location of portable sanitation facilities trash receptacles
and other equipment and services proposed for participants, if applicable.
8. A description of arrangements that have been made for first aid or
emergency medical services, or both, if applicable.
12. 13 ( 2) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
9. Any proposed reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the safe
and orderly conduct of the Park Event or Major Park Event and the movement of persons, in
furtherance of the goals and purposes of the Park Event or Major Park Event. Such proposed
rules may include, but are not limited to, prohibition or other regulation of the use of skates and
wheeled vehicles, other than wheelchairs, if necessary for the safety or orderly circulation of
persons attending the Park Event or Major Park Event. For purposes of this subdivision,
wheeled vehicles" includes, but is not limited to, bicycles, tricycles, scooters, skateboards or
any motorized vehicles of any sort. For purposes of this subdivision, " skates" include roller
skates, roller blades and in- line skates.
10. Insurance and surety bond information, if applicable.
11. A fully refundable cleaning deposit in the amount set by resolution of the
City Council.
12. Such other information, in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter, as the City Manager may reasonably require.
Ord. No. 2002-22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.040 Late Applications
A. Any application received after the deadlines established in Section 12. 16. 030 is
a late application. Late applications must be filed with the City Manager. The City Manager
shall not accept late applications unless he/she finds that:
1. The proposed Park Event or Major Park Event is in response to an
occurrence whose timing did not reasonably allow the applicant to file a timely application; or
2. The imposition of the time limitations would place an
unreasonable restriction on the free speech rights of the applicant.
B. When the City Manager finds either of the above conditions to exist, he/she
shall accept the application and process it in accordance with this chapter, unless it does not
meet the criteria set forth in Section 12. 16.030 or there is insufficient time for the City to make
necessary preparations for traffic control or other public safety matters prior to the proposed
date.
Ord. No. 2002-22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.050 Permits - Standards for Issuance or Denial - Notification
Regulations
A. The City Manager shall issue a Park Event permit or a Major Park Event permit
unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
1. The application is incomplete for failure to provide the information
required Section 12. 16. 030.
2. The information contained in the application, including supplemental
information, if any, is found to be false in any material respect, the purpose of the event is
contrary to law, and/ or the applicant has failed to meet the City requirements for a permit.
3. A prior application for an event to be held at the same time and place
has
been granted.
4. The Park Event will unduly interfere with vehicular ingress to, egress from
or travel on a freeway, state or designated highway, or major arterial or collector street of the
City.
5. The Park Event or Major Park Event will unreasonably interfere with fire
or police protection, or public safety, including preventing substantial or unwarranted traffic or
safety hazards.
12. 13 ( 3) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
6. The Park Event or Major Park Event would involve a number of people
exceeding the capacity of the designated area of the park for which it is proposed.
7. One or more of the applicants or persons whose name is shown on the
application was also named on an application for a Block Party, Street Event, Park Event or
Major Park Event in Vista that resulted in a violation of this chapter or Chapter 12. 12 within the
prior 12 months or was responsible for a Block Party, Street Event or event in a park in any
other jurisdiction that resulted in comparable problems prohibited by local law in that jurisdiction
within the last 12 months.
8. The applicant declines to provide the City with an executed agreement
promising to comply with the conditions imposed on the event.
B. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the action of the City Manager in
granting or denying the permit at least one day prior to the date of the proposed event, unless
the application was made late, in which case notification shall be given as soon as reasonably
possible and by any reasonable means.
1. If the permit is denied, the written notice briefly shall set forth reasons
explaining the basis for the denial and the right to appeal.
2. If the permit is denied pursuant to the criteria set forth in this chapter,
because the proposed time or assembly and, dispersal sites are unacceptable, the denial shall
contain a statement of alternative acceptable times and sites.
C. The City Manager shall review and approve all department regulations detailing
the limitations for each park, including regulations addressing park capacity, the permissibility
and duration of amplified sound and requirements for the maintenance of accessibility during
Park Events or Major Park Events.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.060 Appeal and Reconsideration
A. An applicant may appeal the denial of an application made pursuant to this
chapter by a designee or designees of the City Manager to the City Manager. The City
Manager shall act upon said appeal within two days of its receipt, unless the applicant and the
City Manager agree on a different period for review.
B. An applicant may request the City Manager to reconsider his or her decision to
deny an application, whether made on appeal or otherwise. The request for reconsideration
shall be made in writing and must explain why the applicant believes that the denial or
conditional approval is unlawful. Upon receipt of the request for reconsideration, the City
Manager shall promptly reconsider the decision within two business days, unless the applicant
and the City Manager agree on a different period for review. The decision of the City Manager
upon reconsideration is final.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.070 Park Event Permit - Content - Restrictions - Limitations
A. A Park Event and Major Park Event permit shall contain the information given in
the application and may impose reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions to ensure that
the Park Event or Major Park Event will not pose a traffic or safety hazard or unreasonably
interfere with fire or police protection services. The restrictions shall be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter and shall provide only for such modification of the proposed Park
Event or Major Park Event as is necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter. Such
restrictions may include, but are not limited to, requiring the applicant to:
1. Maintain a 24 foot wide emergency access lane at all times.
12. 13 ( 4) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Provide first aid stations and teams within the closed- off area to provide
emergency medical aid to participants.
3. Provide portable sanitation facilities, trash receptacles and other services.
4. Pay the City for security service costs.
5. Distribute flyers throughout the surrounding areas in advance of the Park
Event and Major Park Event, notifying the affected residents and business people of any
associated traffic diversions.
6. Clean all debris and litter from the park, street and sidewalk area within
four hours after the conclusion of the event;
7. Comply with all state and local laws and rules, including any park rules,
governing the nature and volume of sound at the Park Event;
8. If alcoholic beverages are to be sold at the event, obtain the appropriate
license from the State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, follow responsible beverages
service practices, and provide security adequate to maintain order, as determined by the Police
Chief or Sheriff.
B. All permits shall include the following conditions, except to the extent that the
condition would be contrary to law:
1. The applicant shall agree to bear the costs and compensate the City for
incidental costs, including personnel expenses for clean- up and any damage to park property
caused by applicants use of the park. The applicant shall deposit with the City a sum as a
security deposit, as determined from time to time, by resolution of the City Council.
2. The applicant shall provide the City with satisfactory evidence of
insurance in advance of the Park Event or Major Park Event as required by this Chapter and
any consistent rules or regulations adopted by the City Manager.
3. The applicant shall ensure that participants and spectators of the Special
Event abide by the rules and regulations of this Municipal Code, state law, federal law, and any
rules established by the applicant to govern the event.
4. Authorized City officials may stop a Park Event or Major Park Event at
any time that the official determines that the public safety is in jeopardy.
C. Parks in which Park Events or Major Park Events occur shall remain open to the
public during the Park Event or Major Park Event, to the extent consistent with the park's
capacity and to the maximum extent feasible given the nature of the Park Event or Major Park
Event. No park shall be closed to the public during a Park Event or Major Park Event absent
express permission to do so in a permit issued under this chapter.
D. All Park Events or Major Park Events shall end no later than 10: 00 p. m.
E. Applicant shall ensure that the Park Event or Major Park Event does not impair
accessibility for persons with disabilities.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02; Ord. No. 2005- 21, Amended, 09/ 13/ 05)
Section 12. 13.080 Cancellation and Revocation of Permits
A. The City Manager may revoke a permit at any time, if he or she determines that
as a result of inclement weather conduct of a Park Event or Major Park Event would
unreasonably damage the park for which it is proposed.
B. The City Manager may revoke a permit at any time, if he or she determines that:
1. Grounds exist which would have justified denial of the permit if those
grounds had been know at the time of the application or the implications of those grounds had
been fully understood at the time of the application.
2. The event will endanger the public health, safety, or welfare because of
real or threatened disaster, public calamity, riot, or other emergency that law enforcement
officials would be unable to prevent.
12. 13 ( 5) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The applicant has failed to satisfy a condition of the permit in advance of
the event, including providing the City with required evidence of insurance.
4. An actual sponsor of the event was not shown on the application. The
City Manager may revoke a permit at any time, if he or she determines that any provision of this
chapter or any condition of the permit has not been met or is being violated, or if a person
responsible for the promotion or conduct of the Park Event or Major Park Event was not shown
on the application. The action of the City Manager shall be final.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.090 Indemnification - Security Deposits
A. The permit holder shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of Vista, its officers,
agents, employees and volunteers, from any and all claims, causes of action, penalties, losses,
expenses ( including reasonable attorneys' fees) and any other liability for injuries or damage to
persons or property resulting from the event which were caused by the omissions or authorized
acts of the applicant' s officers, agents or employees.
B. If City property is destroyed or damaged by reason of a Park Event or Major Park
Event, the applicant shall reimburse the City for the cost of those repairs deemed necessary by
the City. The City may retain the security deposit as full or partial reimbursement for any such
damage.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.100 Insurance - Exemption
A. Pursuant to rules and regulations developed by the City Manager, an applicant
must provide the City with insurance to reasonably protect the City against any liability that may
arise from the event.
B. The amount of insurance required shall not be based on the existence or content
of any expression involved in the event, or on the expected reactions of observers.
C. If insurance is required pursuant to this section, a certificate of insurance shall be
provided to the City and must be approved as to form and sufficiency by the City no later than
two days before the event. If the applicant is unable to obtain insurance or does not provide the
City with the certificate of insurance, the City Manager may obtain such insurance on behalf of
the permit applicant and charge the permit applicant for the cost.
D. No permit applicant shall be required to comply with the insurance requirement of
this section if the applicant produces satisfactory evidence that the insurance requirement
violates the First Amendment because it is impossible to obtain, or it would be so financially
burdensome that the insurance requirement would preclude the proposed Park Event or Major
Park Event from occurring.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
Section 12. 13.110 Fees
A. The City Council may establish by resolution the fees that shall be charged for
permits issued under this chapter. Said fees may include the cost of monitoring events pursuant
to Section 12. 16. 080.A, provided that no fees shall be collected if the collection would be in
conflict with applicable law.
B. If an applicant is unable to hold or conduct an event and the applicant submits
written request for the refund of such fees to the City Manager' s office within ten days after the
date that the event was to have been held or conducted, the City Manager may authorize the
refund of any fees that are not necessary to reimburse the City' s expenses of preparation for the
Park Event or Major Park Event, except for non- refundable application fees, if any.
12. 13 ( 6) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Any indigent person who cannot apply for a permit because of an inability arising
from such indigence to pay the application fee shall not be required to pay the fee. Applications
for indigent status shall be made upon application for the permit and shall be accompanied by
such relevant information and documentation as is reasonably necessary to verify indigence.
For purposes of this section, an indigent person is one who is eligible for county relief pursuant
to Sections 17000 et seq. of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 22, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 02)
12. 13 ( 7) Vista 3/ 25/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 14
Unleashed Dogs on Public Property
Sections:
12. 14.010 Unleashed Dogs on Public Property
12. 14.020 Enforcement - Issuance of Order - Appeal
12. 14.030 Penalty
Section 12. 14.010 Unleashed Dogs on Public Property
Notwithstanding Vista Municipal Code Section 6. 06.020, any person owning or having
custody or control of a dog may allow the dog to be on public property, unrestrained by a leash,
so long as each of the following conditions are met:
A. The unleashed dog is:
1. Within the natural areas served by trails within South Buena Vista Park;
and
2. Is present in those areas only during park operating hours. For the
purpose of this section, the phrase " natural areas" shall mean those areas within South Buena
Vista Park that are kept in a native condition, and does not include the parking lot, tot lot or
basketball court.
B. The dog has a current and valid license, issued by an animal control agency or
other agency authorized by law to issue dog licenses, properly attached to its collar.
C. The dog is under direct and effective voice control sufficient to ensure that the
dog is not involved in a violation of any other provision of the law.
D. Owners must pick up and dispose of their dog' s feces;
E. Owners shall prevent their dog( s) from interfering or annoying another person' s
use of the park.
F. The dog has no history of biting, fighting, or injuring a person or other animal.
G. Owner or person with custody and control must provide law enforcement, code
compliance or animal control officers with proof of identity, including name, address and
telephone number upon request while acting in the course and scope of their duties.
Ord. 2005- 13, Enacted 6/ 25/ 05; Ord. No. 2010- 4, Amended 5/ 11/ 10; Ord. 2017- 12, Amended 8/ 22/ 17;
Ord. 2017- 15, Amended 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. 2018-4, Amended 5/ 8/ 18)
Section 12. 14.020 Enforcement - Issuance of Order - Appeal
A. Any law enforcement, code compliance, or animal control officer (" enforcement
official") may enforce this chapter. Such person may issue a written order to a person owning or
having custody or control of the dog to physically restrain the dog by a leash while the dog is in
South Buena Vista Park if the enforcement official observes any violations set forth in Section
12. 14. 010 above.
B. The order shall remain in effect for ten days unless rescinded earlier by the City
Manager for the first offense. For each subsequent offense within a 12 month period, the
effective period of the order shall be extended by ten days. For example on the third offense
within a 12 month period the enforcement period shall be 30 days, unless rescinded by the City
Manager.
C. Any person subject to an order issued in accordance with this provision may file
a written request with the City Manager requesting the order be rescinded. The written request
shall include a statement of why the order should be rescinded.
12. 14 ( l) Vista 6/ 08/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Upon receipt of a written request to rescind an order, the City Manager, or the
Manager's designee, shall conduct a hearing on the request. The order shall be rescinded if the
applicant demonstrates that, based upon a change in circumstances, the order is no longer
required to accomplish the purposes of the code. The decision of the City Manager or his or her
designee shall be final.
Ord. 2005- 13, Enacted 6/ 25/ 05; Ord. No. 2010- 4, Amended 5/ 11/ 10)
Section 12. 14.030 Penalty
A. In addition to any other remedy, any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an infraction and subject to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1. 16.
B. In addition to criminal sanctions and other remedies set forth in this chapter,
administrative penalties may be imposed pursuant to Section 1. 13. 060 of this code against any
person violating any provision of this chapter. Imposition, enforcement, collection, and
administrative review of administrative penalties imposed shall be conducted pursuant to
Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
Ord. 2005- 13, Enacted 6/ 25/ 05; Ord. No. 2010- 4, Amended 5/ 11/ 10)
12. 14 ( 2) Vista 6/ 08/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 20
Signs on City Property
Sections:
12. 20.010 Proprietary Capacity; Authority; Intent as to Public Forum
12. 20.020 Definitions
12. 20.030 Private Party Signs Prohibited Unless Specifically Allowed
12. 20.040 Message Substitution
12. 20.050 Temporary Signs Displaying Noncommercial Messages
12. 20.060 Portable Signs in Certain Areas
12. 20.070 Commercial Hand Held Signs in Certain Areas
12. 20.080 Temporary Signs During Election Periods
12. 20.090 Signs Furthering Sports Field Use
12. 20. 100 Encroachments
12. 20. 110 Mobile Billboards - Prohibited
12. 20. 120 Signage on Vehicles - Non- Permitted Excess Signage
12. 20. 130 Government-Owned Signs on City Property
12. 20. 140 Government Speech on Signs; Legally Authorized Signs
12. 20. 150 Design and Construction of City - Owned Signs
12. 20. 160 Immediate Removal of Signs on City Property
Section 12. 20.010 Proprietary Capacity; Authority; Intent as to Public Forum
A. In adopting this chapter, the City acts in its proprietary capacity as to City
property, as defined herein, within the city.
B. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the City' s general and police powers;
California Constitution Article XI, section 7; California Constitution Article XI, section 5 relating to
charter cities; the City' s ownership rights, California Government Code sections 38774, 38775,
65000 et seq., and 65850( b); Business and Professions Code sections 5200 et seq., 5230, and
5490 et seq.; Penal Code 556, and other applicable state laws. This chapter does not apply to
matters covered by or regulated by the Chapter 12. 12 ( Permits for Block Parties and Street
Events); Chapter 12. 13 ( Permits for Park Events); or Chapter 18. 52 ( Signs on Private Property).
C. When this chapter declares that certain property may function as a public forum
of one particular type, that declaration shall apply only and strictly to the specified area and only
during the specified time period.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20.020 Definitions
Definitions from Chapter 18. 52 ( Signs on Private Property) are incorporated herein,
unless modified by the following definitions, which apply specifically to this chapter.
City-placed temporary event sign" means a City-owned temporary sign conveying a
City- sponsored message that is placed on public buildings, structures or other property for the
limited purpose of providing information on community events.
City property" means land or other property in which the City or a City- related entity
holds a present right of possession and control including, without limitation, by lease, city road
easements, and all public rights of way, regardless of ownership.
12. 20 (l) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
City- related entity" means any governmental entity with a legislative body comprised
of the membership of the Vista City Council, including, without limitation, the Community
Development Commission of the City of Vista and the Buena Sanitation District.
Civic Center Complex" means the Vista City Hall, the adjacent building holding the
Morris B. Vance Community Room and the Emergency Operations Center, the County Library
Building, and all associated parking lots and grounds.
Commercially-zoned sidewalk" means that portion of a right of way within a
traditional public forum which: ( 1) has been dedicated to the City as a right of way; ( 2) has been
developed with a paved sidewalk; ( 3) is within a commercial zone; and ( 4) excludes landscaped
or unpaved portions of the right of way, commonly known as the parkway.
Parkway Strip" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by Development Code
section 19. 24. 020 (" Parkway Strip" shall mean that portion of a public street between the curb
and the sidewalk or the sidewalk and the property line or that portion of the right-of-way which is
not designed or used for vehicular or pedestrian travel.")
Private Party" means any person or entity with the exception of the City or a Cityrelated
entity.
Protected" means a message on a sign that is not within one of the categories of
expression which the courts have declared to be outside the protection of the First Amendment
to the U. S. Constitution or the corollary provisions of the California Constitution.
Temporary signs during election periods" means a sign which conveys any
protected noncommercial message, which satisfies the requirements particular to those signs as
set forth in Section 12. 20.080, and which are on display during an election period.
Traditional public forum areas" means City-owned parks, the surfaces of City- owned
streets and, subject to the limitations set forth herein, sidewalks forming the City' s vehicular and
pedestrian circulation system. Sidewalks located along the outside perimeter of the Vista Civic
Center Complex are included within this definition. Specifically excluded from this definition,
and in no way to be construed as a traditional public forum, is the remainder of the Civic Center
Complex.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20.030 Private Party Signs Prohibited Unless Specifically Allowed
City property may be used by private parties for the display of temporary signs only as
explicitly allowed by this chapter. All other private use of City property, for display of signs, is
prohibited. Any unauthorized sign posted on City property may be summarily removed by the
City as a trespass and a public nuisance.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20.040 Message Substitution
A private party owner of a sign lawfully used and maintained on City property
constituting a traditional public forum may, in accordance with this chapter, substitute for that
message any protected noncommercial message. The substitution of message may occur
without any additional approval or permitting. This provision prevails over any more specific
provision to the contrary within this chapter. The purpose of this provision is to prevent, on City
property constituting a traditional public forum, any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech
over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any
other noncommercial message.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
12. 20 (2) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 20.050 Temporary Signs Displaying Noncommercial Messages
In traditional public forum areas, private parties may display temporary signs with
protected noncommercial messages thereon, provided that their sign( s) conform( s) to all of the
following:
A. The sign( s) must be personally worn or held by a person, or personally attended
by one or more persons.
B. The signs may be displayed only during the time period of sunrise to 9: 00 p. m.,
except on occasions when the City Council or other public body with offices within the City is
holding a public hearing or meeting which is open to the public. On such occasions, the display
period is extended to 9:00 p. m., or if later, 30 minutes after such meeting is officially adjourned
within those portions of the traditional public forum within 1, 000 feet of the primary entrance to
the building in which the meeting is occurring.
C. The maximum aggregate size of all signs held by a single person is six square
feet, measured one side only. Visible images which are displayed as part of personal apparel
do not count toward this maximum. For purposes of this rule, apparel and other aspects of
personal appearance do not count towards the maximum aggregate sign area.
D. The maximum cumulative size of signs which are physically controlled by two or
more persons acting in concert is 12 square feet measured one side only.
E. Signs displayed under this provision may have no more than two display faces,
may not be inflated, air-activated, specially illuminated, project any sharp edges or points, emit
smoke or fumes or sounds, pose a fire hazard or other threat to public health safety and
welfare, and may not be used to obstruct or impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
F. To serve the City' s interests in traffic flow and safety, persons displaying signs
under this section may not stand in any vehicular traffic lane when a public roadway is open for
use by moving vehicles, and persons displaying signs on public sidewalks must give clearance
of at least five feet unless the sidewalk in question is less than five feet in width, in which case
clearance of sufficient width shall be provided so as not to impede or block pedestrian flow on
the sidewalk.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20.060 Portable Signs in Certain Areas
Within designated BID areas, a private party may display portable signs on a
commercially-zoned sidewalk located on City property in accordance with the following
requirements.
A. Before displaying a portable sign, a tenant must obtain an administrative sign
permit. The permit shall be requested, reviewed and issued using the procedures described in
Section 18. 52. 110.
B. The sign must be authorized by an encroachment permit issued for the individual
portable sign or for a group of signs including the individual portable sign.
C. A minimum of eight feet of unobstructed sidewalk area must be maintained
around the sign.
D. The display must satisfy each of the sizing and operational requirements
applicable to portable signs pursuant to Section 18. 52. 060 of the Development Code.
E. A tenant can display only one portable sign pursuant to the combined operation
of this section and Section 18. 52. 060 of the Development Code.
F. A building may display a maximum of two portable signs pursuant to the
combined operation of this section and Section 18. 52. 060 of the Development Code.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
12. 20 (3) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 20.070 Commercial Hand Held Signs in Certain Areas
Commercial hand held signs may be displayed on a commercially-zoned sidewalk,
provided that the following requirements are satisfied.
A. The sign( s) must be personally worn or held by a person, or personally attended
by one or more persons.
B. For the purpose of creating a commercially- oriented environment, the display
face of a commercial hand held sign must be professionally prepared. Professional preparation
consists of any image generated by use of a computer or any other means, excluding only
images created: ( 1) through free- hand writing, drawing or painting applied directly to a sign; ( 2)
stencils applied to a sign by use of spray paint, adhesive or a similar process; or ( 3) signs
produced using the methods described in the preceding clauses and then replicated through a
photocopy or similar process.
C. The signs may be displayed only during the time period of sunrise to sunset.
D. The maximum aggregate size of all signs held by a single person is six square
feet, measured one side only.
E. The maximum cumulative size of signs which are physically controlled by two or
more persons acting in concert is 12 square feet measured one side only.
F. Signs displayed under this provision may have no more than two display faces,
may not be inflated, air-activated, specially illuminated, project any sharp edges or points, emit
smoke or fumes or sounds, pose a fire hazard or other threat to public health safety and
welfare, and may not be used to obstruct or impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
G. To serve the City' s interests in traffic flow and safety, persons displaying signs
under this section may not stand in any vehicular traffic lane when a public roadway is open for
use by moving vehicles, and persons displaying signs on public sidewalks must give clearance
of at least five feet in width for pedestrians to pass by unless the sidewalk in question is less
than five feet in width, in which case clearance of sufficient width shall be provided so as not to
impede or block pedestrian flow on the sidewalk.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20.080 Temporary Signs during Election Periods
A. Provided that the requirements of paragraph ( B) are satisfied, temporary signs
during election periods may be placed on City property that is part of a public right of way
dedicated to the City.
B. Signs authorized by this section must satisfy all of the following requirements:
1. The sign may not be located on a roadway median or any portion of the
right of way designed for vehicular use.
2. The sign shall not be placed or affixed to any trees, utility poles, traffic
signs and devices, concrete, pavement, or any publicly maintained fixtures within any public
right of way, or in any manner that presents a hazard or threat to public safety as determined by
the City Engineer.
3. Placement and maintenance of the sign within a parkway strip may occur
only with the consent of the person or entity which owns that parkway strip.
4. The sign may not exceed six square feet (measured one side).
5. The sign shall not be erected, installed, placed or maintained by any
person prior to 35 days preceding any federal, state, or local election, and shall be removed, by
the person responsible for placing or installing such sign, within 5 days following such election.
6. Signs may not be placed in a manner that presents a hazard or threat to
public safety as determined by the City Engineer.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11; Ord. 2016- 5, Amended, 8/ 23/ 16)
12. 20 (4) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 20.090 Signs Furthering Sports Field Use
A. The City wishes to facilitate the nonprofit use of its sports fields for sports
leagues serving children and youth, without excessive cost to the City. This use achieves a
primary purpose for which the sports fields were created. However, the City recognizes that the
nonprofit organizations, in sponsoring leagues that use the sports fields, incur substantial
financial obligations which would be borne by the City if the City operated the programs itself.
To encourage a productive use of City sports fields, by nonprofit organizations which sponsor
youth leagues, the City wishes to provide the nonprofit organizations with an opportunity to
collect revenues through paid advertising messages on signs located at sports fields, subject to
the conditions described in paragraphs ( B) and ( C).
B. All signs must satisfy the following requirements:
1. A sign face may not exceed 32 square feet in size and may not be
illuminated. The sign may not have a depth exceeding one- half of an inch, unless first approved
by the City Planner or Director of Recreation and Community Services. Only one face of a sign
shall display a message.
2. Signs shall be professionally prepared and made of permanent, durable,
waterproof materials. Professional preparation consists of any image generated by use of a
computer or any other means, excluding only images created: ( 1) through free- hand writing,
drawing or painting applied directly to a sign; ( 2) stencils applied to a sign by use of spray paint,
adhesive or a similar process; or ( 3) signs produced using the methods described in the
preceding clauses and then replicated through a photocopy or similar process.
3. Signs, at minimum, must be securely attached to the fence at all four
corners. The method of attachment may not pose any hazard to those using the fields and shall
be approved by the City Planner or Director of Recreation and Community Services.
4. Signs may not project above or outside the area of the fence and may not
interfere with the reasonable use and maintenance of the sports fields.
C. No sign may be placed or maintained by a nonprofit organization unless the
organization has first executed a license agreement with the City and the sign is placed and
maintained in full conformity with that license agreement. The license agreement shall satisfy
the following, but may include additional reasonable requirements.
1. The nonprofit organization shall provide insurance, naming the City as an
additional insured, for its use of the sports field and placement of the signs.
2. Allocations of signs shall occur in proportion to the usage of individual
fields allocated for a sport season to the nonprofit organizations using those fields.
3. In order to maximize the revenue generating capacity of the signs in a
manner consistent with the intended use of the sports fields, a sign: ( a) may only present a
commercial message; ( b) may not advertise a product which is unlawful to consume or use
within the sports fields; and ( c) may not advertise a product which is unlawful for persons to
purchase or consume, if under the age of 18.
4. The nonprofit organization shall remove all signs allocated to the
organization under a license agreement within two days of the end of the sports season for
which such sign was displayed.
5. All revenues received by the nonprofit organization from the signs shall
be expended by the nonprofit organization to support the children and youth in their use of the
fields for their intended purpose, or the leagues hosting the sporting events on those fields.
6. The license agreement shall be prepared and executed by the City
Manager.
D. This ordinance permits, but does not require, the City Manager to authorize one
or more license agreements for one or more sports fields to be utilized by one or more nonprofit
organizations. Such agreements may be terminated by the City Manager pursuant to their
12. 20 (5) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
terms. A decision to authorize a license agreement for one sports field during a season does
not obligate the City Manager to continue that practice in future seasons.
E. This ordinance is intended to be administered in conformity with all requirements
of the Federal and State Constitutions. The City Manager may prepare policies and regulations,
not in conflict with this section, for purposes of administering the program authorized by this
section.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 100 Encroachments
When authorized by Chapters 18. 52, private party signs mounted on private property
may project into or over City property or the public right of way provided that the encroachment
is first authorized by a permit issued pursuant to Chapter 19. 16 of the Vista Development Code.
The private party sign producing the encroachment must satisfy all applicable safety codes
building, plumbing, electrical, etc.) and all City rules, regulations and policies, including those
contained in Chapters 18. 52 and 19. 16.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 110 Mobile Billboards - Prohibited
A. The purpose of this section is to eliminate mobile billboard advertising within the
city in order to promote the safe movement of vehicular traffic, to reduce traffic congestion on
public roads, to reduce air pollution, and to improve the aesthetic appearance of the city.
B. It is unlawful for any person to conduct, or cause to be conducted, any mobile
billboard on any City property or any street within the city in which the public has the right of
travel.
C. This section shall not apply to any vehicle which displays an advertisement or
business identification of its owner, so long as such vehicle is engaged in the usual business or
regular work of the owner, and not used merely, mainly or primarily to display advertisements.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 120 Signage on Vehicles - Non- Permitted Excess Signage
A. Signs located on a parked or stationary vehicle, as defined in the California
Vehicle Code, are prohibited when: ( 1) the vehicle is located on city property; and ( 2) operation
of the vehicle cannot occur lawfully on public streets with the sign or display in place.
B. This section seeks to assure that businesses, establishments, and uses do not
circumvent the purposes of this code by installing, locating or utilizing signage and displays
which exceed the quantities, types and allowed locations for such signage. Additionally, this
section is intended to avoid visual clutter, distractions for motorists, and degradation to the
aesthetics of the community and its efforts to promote high quality and well- planned
commercial, industrial and residential districts.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 130 Government-Owned Signs on City Property
Signs owned by the City or a City- related entity may be installed, constructed, or placed
on City property if the sign conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
12. 20 (6) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 20. 140 Government Speech on Signs; Legally Authorized Signs
The following signs may be erected and displayed on City property, subject to the rules
set herein:
A. Traffic control and traffic directional signs erected by the City or other
governmental agencies acting in scope of their authority, including temporary traffic and traffic
direction signs.
B. Official notices required or authorized by law or valid court order.
C. Signs placed by the City or a City- related entity in furtherance their governmental
functions.
D. Signs on City property placed by the City expressing its own message or placed
by a City- related entity expressing its own message.
E. Signs attached to any building comprising a City project or on land developed
with a City project as defined in Section 18. 04. 160, provided that the sign identifies or supports
the functions or operations of that City project.
F. Any other sign category or sign type which is owned or leased by the City and
located on City property, provided that the City Council approves the sign design, approves its
operational features, and determines that the sign will promote one or more City interests.
G. City- placed temporary event signs, provided that such signs shall not exceed ten
in number. Such signs cannot be displayed sooner than 30 days before the start of an event or
more than ten days following the conclusion of the event identified on the sign. A City-placed
temporary event sign is not intended to create a public forum
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 150 Design and Construction of City-Owned Signs
Any permanent sign on City property which is owned by the City or a City- related entity
shall be designed, installed and constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
A. All permanent sign faces shall be constructed of permanent materials including, but
not limited to, painted and/ or sandblasted wood, ceramic tile, applied letters, carved wood,
metal, plastic or other compatible, durable and waterproof material. No material more
combustible than treated wood shall be used in the construction of any permanent sign.
B. Structural design of all permanent signs shall conform to the requirements of the
Uniform Building Code.
C. All permanent signs shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable Uniform
Building Code and National Electrical Code provisions. Exposed- tube neon signs shall be
constructed and installed in compliance with the National Electrical Code.
D. Signs shall be constructed or installed to satisfy CALTRANS- administered
regulations and laws, and to avoid obstructions to the sight for pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicle
drivers.
E. Exposed sign support hardware for permanent signs shall be of a compatible
material and design with the sign it supports.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 12. 20. 160 Immediate Removal of Signs on City Property
A. Removal. Any lettering, advertisement, card, poster, sign or notice of any kind
placed upon City property or on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, lamp post, hydrant, bridge, tree or
other surface located on City property in violation of the provisions of this chapter, or any sign
which constitutes an immediate peril to persons or property, may be removed without prior notice
by any officer or employee of the City designated to do so by the City Manager.
12. 20 (7) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Return of Materials. Any lettering, advertisement, card, poster, sign or notice
which has been removed under this section may be returned to the owner if a return is timely
requested and any applicable storage charges are first paid.
Ord. 2011- 3, Enacted, 5/ 24/ 11)
12. 20 (8) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 12. 25
Film Permits
Sections:
12. 25.010 Purpose
12. 25.020 Definitions
12. 25.030 Film Permit Required; Exceptions
12. 25.040 Film Permit Application and Issuance
12. 25.050 Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Film Permit
12. 25.060 Film Permit Fees
12. 25.070 Insurance and Indemnification
12. 25.080 Students and Non- profit Organizations
12. 25.090 Administrative Regulations
Section 12. 25.010 Purpose
The film permit requirements established in this Chapter are intended to facilitate filming,
videotaping, photographing, and other visual recording activities within the city of Vista, whether
on public or private property, in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the public
peace, quiet enjoyment, health and safety, including traffic, parking, pedestrian circulation, and
the use of or access to public property and facilities, or unreasonably endanger any property.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12. 25.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this Chapter, certain words and phrases are defined and certain
provisions shall be construed as herein set forth, unless it is apparent from the context that a
different meaning is intended.
A. " City Manager" means the City Manager of the City, or the City Manager's
designee for all actions described in this Chapter other than promulgating regulations pursuant to
Section 12. 25. 090.
B. " Commercial filming" means filming for the primary purpose of commercial use,
sale or distribution, including, but not limited to, filming done for compensation, the expectation of
compensation, or advertising on any medium.
C. " Filming" means and includes all activity related to the taking of any still
photographs, and to the staging, videotaping or filming of motion pictures, television shows or
programs, serials, commercials, music videos, internet productions, print advertisement, training
or educational videos, and to any other type of visual recording process, including digital
recording.
D. " Non- profit organization" means an organization that qualifies under Section
501( c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code as a charitable organization, provided that no person
directly or indirectly receives a profit from the production, marketing or distribution of non- profit
films or photography.
E. " Student" means an individual enrolled in a recognized educational institution and
who is conducting filming for purposes of a class project, assignment or other school requirement.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
12. 25 (l) Vista 6/ 22/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 25.030 Film Permit Required; Exceptions
A. Except as provided in paragraph ( B), no person shall conduct any filming in the
City of Vista without a permit issued by the City.
B. This Chapter does not apply to:
1. Filming conducted solely for non- commercial purposes ( including, but not
limited to, personal, private or family use), provided the filming:
a. Does not expose third parties to a risk of injury; and
b. Does not directly or indirectly disrupt or impair use of public
property, including the public right of way.
2. Filming for news media, including, but not limited to, newspapers,
magazines, news services, broadcast stations, television or cable news shows, internet news
programs, and similar news media, for the primary purpose of disseminating news, recent events,
and other current public affairs;
3. Filming conducted entirely within the premises of a validly permitted motion
picture, television, radio, or photography production studio;
4. Filming at any City-owned facility pursuant to a City-executed license or
agreement provided that the method, hours and days of filming are consistent with the license or
agreement;
5. Filming by or for the City or other governmental agencies; and
6. Student filming that does not require the placement of equipment, parking
of vehicles, or other use or control of public property to the exclusion of others.
7. Filming which occurs pursuant to an approved street or other event under
Chapter 12. 12 or an approved park event under Chapter 12. 13 where each of the following is
satisfied:
a. The filming locations, times and methods were fully described in the
permit application,
b. The filming is incidental and subordinate to the primary event
authorized pursuant to the event approved pursuant to Chapters 12. 12 or 12. 13,
C. The event sponsors, or their contractors, are the parties engaged
in the filming, and
d. The filming occurs in conformity with all terms and conditions of the
approved permit.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12. 25.040 Film Permit Application and Issuance
A. Each film permit application shall be in a form provided by the City and must be
completed in full and filed with the City Manager or designee.
B. Complete applications, inclusive evidence of required insurance and the
application fee, shall be filed no later than five City business days prior to the date of scheduled
filming, or twelve days prior to the date of scheduled filming if location and/or public service fees
will be owed pursuant to Section 12. 25.060( B). When location and/ or public service fees are
owed, the amounts are determined after the complete application is submitted as provided in
Section 12. 25. 060( B).
C. Prior to issuance of a film permit, the City Manager may, as he or she deems
necessary from the application, refer the application to other City departments that may be
impacted by the proposed filming for the departments' review, evaluation, and recommendation
to approve or disapprove the application.
D. The City Manager or designee shall issue a film permit in accordance with this
Chapter provided that the following criteria and requirements are met:
12. 25 (2) Vista 6/ 22/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
1. A complete and accurate application has been received, inclusive of
evidence of required insurance, payment of the application fee, and payment of the location
and/ or public services fees if required pursuant to Section 12. 25. 060.
2. The proposed filming will not unduly interfere with traffic or pedestrian
movement; close any public space, street, sidewalk, parkway or other rights- of-way for an
unreasonable period of time, or unduly interfere with nearby residents' or business owners' quiet,
peaceful enjoyment of their property;
3. The proposed filming will not endanger public safety or property, including,
but not limited to, the following:
a. The proposed filming will not unduly impede, obstruct or interfere
with the operation of emergency vehicles or equipment in or through the permitted area, and
b. The proposed filming will not constitute a fire hazard or any other
type of hazard and all proper safety precautions will be taken as necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare;
4. The proposed filming will not endanger or threaten damage to public
property;
5. The proposed filming will not unduly interfere with normal governmental
functions or City services and operations, or conflict with previously scheduled events;
6. The proposed filming will not otherwise be detrimental to the public health
or safety;
7. Any potential liabilities or expenses which the City may experience due to
the filming are covered by insurance policies and indemnity agreements sufficient to financially
protect the City, as determined by the City Manager or designee; and
8. The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed filming will occur without
violating applicable laws or regulations.
E. The permittee shall maintain the film permit at the filming location at all times for
the duration of the filming.
F. The permit shall set forth the location and hours of allowed filming, and shall
include any conditions or rules which the City Manager or designee determines are reasonably
necessary for the filming to occur in a manner consistent with the standards described in this
Chapter.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12. 25.050 Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Film Permit
A. The City Manager shall deny issuance of a film permit if the requirements of this
Chapter and all applicable laws and regulations have not been met, or if the application contains
incomplete, false or misleading information.
B. The City Manager may immediately suspend or revoke a film permit if the
requirements of this Chapter and all applicable laws and regulations are not met; the information
supplied by the permittee becomes, or is determined to be, false or incomplete; or any substantial
change in circumstances renders the filming detrimental to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12. 25.060 Film Permit Fees
Prior to issuance of a film permit, all fees shall be paid on or before the date set forth
below:
A. A non- refundable application fee shall accompany the application to reimburse the
City for costs incurred to review the application.
12. 25 (3) Vista 6/ 22/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
B. A location fee, if applicable, shall be paid at least five City business days prior to
the start of any filming. The location fee is designed to compensate the City for the applicant' s
use of public property and its unavailability for ordinary and usual purposes resulting from the
filming, including preparation and strike days. The location fee will be reasonably determined by
the City Manager after considering the public facilities to be used, the timing of the use, and the
duration of the proposed use. Location fees are waived for the following:
1. Filming conducted entirely on private property;
2. Non- profit organizations; and
3. Students.
C. A public services fee shall be paid at least five City business days prior to the start
of any filming. The public services fee will be in an amount to reimburse the City for the cost of
services it reasonably expects to incur in providing police officers, code enforcement officers, fire
personnel, or other City personnel or City equipment for the purpose of protecting, assisting, and
regulating the filming and public safety. The public services fee will be determined by the City
Manager or designee based on the personnel to be provided, the duration of their required work,
the cost of the personnel, and other expenses which will be imposed on the City.
D. Any location fee and/ or public service fee will be refunded to an applicant if the
application is denied. An applicant will also be entitled to a full or partial refund if the filming is
cancelled and the City receives advance written notice with sufficient time for the City to:
1. Regain full or part use of the public property which is subject to the location
fee; or
2. Avoid incurring all or part of the expenses to be covered by the public
services fee.
E. If an applicant disputes a location fee or public services fee determined by the City,
the applicant may make a written request for reconsideration of that fee prior to making payment
if the written request explains the basis for disagreeing with the City determination and the amount
the applicant believes to be the correct determination. Upon receiving such a request for
reconsideration, the City Manager or designee will review the request and make a final written
determination of the fee.
F. No refund or dispute of a fee may occur except as provided in this Section.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12.25.070 Insurance and Indemnification
A. Before a film permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish public liability insurance
in amounts as determined by the City's Risk Manager but in no event less than one million dollars
and name the City of Vista, its City Council, boards and commissions, officers, agents, and
employees as additional insureds.
B. Before a film permit is issued, the applicant shall agree to indemnify, defend, and
hold the City harmless from any liability for personal injury, wrongful death, and property damage
arising out of the use of the film permit and City streets, property, and facilities.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
Section 12. 25.080 Students and Non- profit Organizations
A. Students conducting filming shall first submit to the City a written certificate from
their school stating that they are bona fide, currently enrolled students of the school.
B. Non- profit organizations conducting filming shall first submit to the City a certificate
stating that they are exempt and classified as non- profit under applicable Federal and State tax
law.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
12. 25 (4) Vista 6/ 22/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 12. 25.090 Administrative Regulations
A. When administering this Chapter, City officers, employees, and agents shall, act
in a manner which is content neutral and viewpoint neutral.
B. The City Manager is authorized to adopt administrative regulations or
administrative filming and permit processing requirements which are consistent with the purposes
of this Chapter.
C. Violations of the administrative regulations adopted pursuant to this Section shall
constitute violations of this Chapter, and shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in this
Chapter 1 of this Municipal Code.
Ord. 2018- 8, Added, 5/ 22/ 18)
12. 25 (5) Vista 6/ 22/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 04
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Note: This section has been incorporated into Title 14 of the Vista Municipal Code.
Sections:
13. 04.010 County Regulations Adopted - Sewers and Sewage Disposal Plants
13. 04.020 County Regulations Adopted - Connections to Sewers
13. 04.030 Supplemental Improvements - Reimbursement of Properties Benefited
13. 04.040 Supplemental Improvements  Hearings - Reimbursement Charges and
Agreements
13. 04.050 Supplemental Improvements  Hearings - Notice
13. 04.060 Supplemental Improvements - Majority Objection - Council Approval
13. 04.070 Supplemental Improvements - Construction Prior to Hearing
13. 04.080 Supplemental Improvements - Determination of Reimbursement
Establishment of Charges
13. 04.090 Supplemental Improvements - Payment of Charges
13. 04. 100 Repayment
13. 04. 110 Wastewater Discharge Permit
13. 04. 115 Sewerage Capacity Fees
13. 04. 120 Excess Usage Charge
13. 04. 121 Appeal of Excess Usage Charge
13. 04. 125 Amount of Sewerage Capacity Fees
13. 04. 130 Amount of Excess Usage Charge and Purchase of Additional Capacity
13. 04. 131 Waiver of Excess Usage Charge
13. 04. 135 Payment of Capacity Fees
13. 04. 140 Reuse of Old Wastewater Permits
13. 04. 145 Election to have Excess Usage Charge Collected with Taxes
13. 04. 150 Collection of Sewer Excess Usage Charges with Taxes
13. 04. 155 Transfer of Existing Sewer Permits
13. 04. 170 Equivalent Dwelling Units ( EDUs)
13. 04. 175 Residential Equivalent Dwelling Units Sewer Capacity
13. 04. 180 All Other User EDUs
13. 04. 185 EDUs for Operation and Maintenance
13. 04. 190 EDUs for Excess Usage Charge
13. 04. 195 Election to have Sewer Service Charges Collected with Taxes
13. 04.200 Collection of Sewer Service Charges with Taxes
Section 13.04.010 County Regulations Adopted - Sewers and Sewage Disposal Plants
Prior Code 25- 1; Ord. 63- 1, Amended 1/ 28/63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 2009- 10,
Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.020 County Regulations Adopted - Connections to Sewers
Prior Code 25- 2; Ord. No. 63- 1, Amended 1/ 28/ 63; Ord. No. 63- 13, Amended 5/ 14/ 63; Ord. No. 2009- 10,
Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
13. 04 ( l) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 04.030 Supplemental Improvements - Reimbursement of Properties Benefited
Prior Code 25- 11; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.040 Supplemental Improvements - Hearings - Reimbursement Charges
and Agreements
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009-
10, Repealed 4/ 14/09)
Section 13. 04.050 Supplemental Improvements  Hearings - Notice
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.060 Supplemental Improvements - Majority Objection - Council Approval
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.070 Supplemental Improvements-Construction Prior to Hearing
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.080 Supplemental Improvements- Determination of Reimbursement -
Establishment of Charges
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.090 Supplemental Improvements - Payment of Charges
Prior Code 25- 12; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2001- 5, Amended, 02/ 27/ 01; Ord. No.
2008- 15, Amended, 6/ 10/ 08; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 100 Repayment
Prior Code 25- 13; Ord. No. 88- 26, Amended 7/ 25/ 88; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 110 Wastewater Discharge Permit
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.115 Sewerage Capacity Fees
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13.04. 120 Excess Usage Charge
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 121 Appeal of Excess Usage Charge
Ord. No. 97- 1, Enacted 01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
13. 04 ( 2) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 04. 125 Amount of Sewerage Capacity Fees
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.130 Amount of Excess Usage Charge and Purchase of Additional
Capacity
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 97- 1, Amended 01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed
4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 131 Waiver of Excess Usage Charge
Ord. No. 97- 1, Enacted 01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 135 Payment of Capacity Fees
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 140 Reuse of Old Wastewater Permits
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 145 Election to Have Excess Usage Charge Collected with Taxes
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.150 Collection of Sewer Excess Usage Charges with Taxes
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 155 Transfer of Existing Sewer Permits
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 170 Equivalent Dwelling Units ( EDUs)
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 175 Residential Equivalent Dwelling Units Sewer Capacity
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 180 All Other User EDUs
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04. 185 EDUs for Operation and Maintenance
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
13. 04 ( 3) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 04. 190 EDUs for Excess Usage Charge
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13.04. 195 Election to have Sewer Service Charges Collected with Taxes
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 13. 04.200 Collection of Sewer Service Charges with Taxes.
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted 06/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed 4/ 14/ 09)
13. 04 ( 4) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 08
Encina Water Pollution Control Facility
Sections:
13. 08.010 Adoption of Regulations and Procedures
13. 08.020 Violation - Penalty
Section 13. 08.010 Adoption of Regulations and Procedures
There is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of regulations and procedures for
industrial users of the Encina Water Pollution Control Facility, those certain regulations known
as the pretreatment regulations and procedures for industrial users of the Encina Water
Pollution Control Facility. One copy of said regulations is filed in the office of the City Clerk and
is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and from the date on
which the ordinance codified in this section takes effect the provisions thereof are controlling
within the limits of the city.
Prior Code 14- 38; Ord. No. 90- 23, Amended 6/ 25/ 90)
Section 13. 08.020 Violation- Penalty
Violations of the regulations and procedures adopted in Section 13. 08. 010 shall be
punished as a misdemeanor under the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 14- 39; Ord. No. 90- 23, Amended 6/ 25/ 90)
13. 08 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 12
Emergency Ambulance Service
Sections:
13. 12. 010 Purpose of Provisions
13. 12. 020 Purpose and Establishment of Fire-Med Program
13. 12. 030 Definitions
13. 12. 040 Administration
13. 12. 050 Eligibility for Membership
13. 12. 060 Enrollment
13. 12. 070 Membership Classes
13. 12. 080 Enrollment Fee
13. 12. 090 FireMed Membership Benefits
13. 12. 100 Duty to Respond; Intent of Program
13. 12. 110 Use of revenues from Enrollment Fees
13. 12. 120 Termination of Program
Section 13. 12.010 Purpose of Provisions
For the purpose of safeguarding the health, safety and general welfare of the
community, the City Council establishes emergency ambulance service. Any person who has
been injured in an accident or who is ill and in need of immediate transportation shall be given
immediate transportation to a hospital. The City Council determines that the operation of an
emergency ambulance service by the Fire Department of the City will enable the residents
thereof to have more efficient and reliable emergency ambulance service for the City. The Fire
Chief shall operate, maintain, establish, and administer the emergency ambulance service
within his department so as to provide efficient and reliable emergency ambulance service
consistent with available funds therefore.
Prior Code 11- 31; Ord. No. 68- 36, Enacted 9/ 3/ 68)
Section 13. 12.020 Purpose and Establishment of Fire-Med Program
For the purpose of promoting and protecting the health, safety and welfare of the
community, there is hereby established a program, to be known as the " FireMed Program," to
provide for the voluntary pre- payment of the uninsured portion of the fees for emergency
ambulance services provided by the Vista Fire Department.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.030 Definitions
Unless a different meaning is apparent from the context, or is specified elsewhere in the
code, the following definitions shall be used for purposes of this chapter.
Emergency Ambulance Services." Those emergency medical treatment and
transportation services of the Vista Fire Department established under Section 13. 12. 010 of this
code.
FireMed Services." Those services provided by the Vista Fire Department, or any of
its designated ambulance services providers, relating to emergency medical treatment and
transportation provided through the FireMed Program.
13. 12 ( l) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
FireMed Program." A program of the Vista Fire Department providing pre- paid
emergency ambulance services to any FireMed Member.
FireMed Member." Any resident of the community served by the Vista Fire
Department who voluntarily elects to join the FireMed Program upon payment of the annual
membership fee established under the authority of Section 13. 12. 080 below, for the term of the
membership obtained thereby.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12. 040 Administration
The FireMed Program shall be administered by and through the Vista Fire Department.
The Vista Fire Chief, or his/ her designee, shall be responsible for the direction, supervision, and
coordination of all FireMed Program activities. The Fire Chief shall develop and recommend to
the City Manager of the City of Vista such rules, policies, and procedures as may be necessary
or appropriate for the effective administration and operation of the program. Upon approval by
the City Manager, such rules, policies and procedures shall become effective in accordance
with the terms and conditions specified therein.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.050 Eligibility for Membership
Any resident of the community served by the Vista Fire Department shall be eligible for
membership in the FireMed Program. For the purposes of this section, the term " resident"
includes any person who resides within the community, whether on a permanent or temporary
basis, or who is employed within the community.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.060 Enrollment
Any eligible resident who desires to enroll in the FireMed Program may become a FireMed
Member upon application in a form and manner to be established pursuant to Section 13. 12. 030
above and the payment of the enrollment fee during any period of open enrollment established by
the Vista Fire Chief. There shall be a period of open enrollment during at least one month of
every year. The Vista Fire Chief shall maintain a roster of the names and addresses or place of
employment of all current FireMed Members.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.070 Membership Classes
The City Council may, by resolution, provide for different classes of membership in the
FireMed Program according to individual, household, or employee coverage.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12. 080 Enrollment Fee
There is hereby established an enrollment fee or fees (" Enrollment Fee") which shall
be paid in advance by any eligible resident who wishes to enroll as a FireMed member. The
Enrollment Fee may vary according to the classes of membership established by the City
Council. The Enrollment Fee shall be based upon consideration of the amount of revenue
required to defray the costs and expenses of maintaining emergency ambulance services in the
community, the number of FireMed Members anticipated for each class, and the costs of
13. 12 (2) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
administering the FireMed Program. The Enrollment Fee shall be limited by the amount
necessary to meet anticipated costs and expenses of the emergency ambulance services. The
Enrollment Fee is a form of user fee or service charge paid voluntarily in exchange for the
FireMed Membership Benefits.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.090 FireMed Membership Benefits
A FireMed Member is entitled to receive the benefit of prepayment of the uninsured
portion of any fees established for emergency ambulance services provided by the Vista Fire
Department, or any of its authorized contract service providers, to the Member, the Member's
household, or the Member's employees, according to the class of membership.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.100 Duty to Respond; Intent of Program
Under no circumstances shall the priority, availability, or quality of emergency ambulance
services provided by the Vista Fire Department be based upon membership or non- membership
in the FireMed Program. The responsibility to provide such service to all persons in need,
regardless of membership, remains unaffected. The intent of the FireMed Program is to help
support the provision of adequate emergency ambulance services to all persons in need of such
services within the community served by the Vista Fire Department, and at the same time offer
to eligible residents the opportunity to avoid the risk of the relatively high costs of any uninsured
portion of the fees for such services through the pre- payment of the costs in advance of the
need.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12.110 Use of Revenues from Enrollment Fees
All revenues received from the payment of enrollment fees shall be used solely and
exclusively to defray the costs and expenses associated with providing the emergency ambulance
service of the Vista Fire Department.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 13. 12. 120 Termination of Program
The FireMed Program may be terminated upon the close of any fiscal year by a
resolution of the City Council adopted by a majority of its members at least 60 days prior to the
effective date of termination. Upon such adoption of a resolution of termination, the City Council
shall publish a notice of the pending termination in the manner provided by Section 6061 of the
California Government Code and shall provide every current member at least 30 days written
notice of termination. Upon demand of any member, the City Council shall arrange for a refund
of the prorated portion of any enrollment fee for any member whose term of membership has
not lapsed upon the date of termination.
Ord. No. 93- 16, Enacted 05/ 25/ 93)
13. 12 (3) Vista 5/ 6/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 16
Solid Waste Management
Sections:
13. 16. 010 Purpose
13. 16. 020 Definitions
13. 16. 030 Burying Prohibited Generally
13. 16. 040 Burying Permitted- Procedure - Effect of Health Officer's Order Prohibiting
13. 16. 050 Burning Prohibited Generally
13. 16. 060 Solid Waste Collection Mandatory
13. 16. 070 Frequency and Scheduling of Collection
13. 16. 080 Special Collections
13. 16. 090 Exemption from Mandatory Collection
13. 16. 100 Exemption from Payment - Economic Hardship
13. 16. 110 Unlawful Collection
13. 16. 120 Solid Waste Containers - Type and Construction
13. 16. 130 Solid Waste Containers - Volume/Weight Limitations
13. 16. 140 Special Methods of Collection and Disposal
13. 16. 150 Placement of Containers for Collection
13. 16. 160 Transporting Vehicles - Body Requirements
13. 16. 170 Transporting Vehicles - Covering When Not In Use
13. 16. 180 Unlawful Transportation through Public Streets
13. 16. 190 Unlawful to Place Infectious or Hazardous Waste in Solid Waste Containers
13. 16. 200 Unsafe or Offensive Accumulation of Solid Waste Prohibited
13. 16. 210 Interference with Solid Waste Containers Prohibited
13. 16. 220 Spilling of Solid Waste Prohibited
13. 16. 230 No Parking of Loaded Trucks Overnight
13. 16. 240 Franchise Agreement between Contractor and City
13. 16. 250 Contract Authority - Bond Required
13. 16. 260 Indemnification to City
13. 16. 270 Basis for Letting
13. 16. 280 Authority to Terminate, Relet Contract
13. 16. 290 Assignment or Transfer of Rights
13. 16. 300 Solid Waste Collection, Spillage and Cleanup
13. 16. 310 Solid Waste Disposal
13. 16. 320 Collection from Public Parks and Government Buildings
13. 16. 330 Contractor Participation in Special Cleanup Activities
13. 16. 340 Vehicle Compliance with Codes and Regulations
13. 16. 350 Compliance with Local and California Laws and Regulations
13. 16. 360 Continuance of Service in the Event of Nonpayment
13. 16. 370 Establishment of Charges
13. 16. 380 Basis for Charges
13. 16. 390 Liability for Payment
13. 16.400 Direct Bill by Contractor and Payment to Contractor
13. 16.410 Failure to Pay Contractor for Solid Waste Collection
13. 16.420 Special Assessment Collection
13. 16.430 Duties Regarding Collection and Removal
13. 16.440 City Manager to Settle Controversies
13. 16.450 City Manager to Regulate and Approve Vehicles and Methods of Hauling
13. 16 (l) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
13. 16.460 Making of Rules and Regulations
13. 16.470 Notice of Violation
13. 16.480 Violations of Certain Sections - Infraction
13. 16.490 Violations of Section 13. 16. 190 - Misdemeanor
13. 16. 500 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Revenue Fund
13. 16. 510 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Capital Fund
13. 16. 520 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Service Charge
13. 16. 530 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Adoption of Rates
13. 16. 540 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Method of Collection
Section 13. 16. 010 Purpose
The City Council finds that the storage, accumulation, collection and disposal of solid
waste is a matter of public concern, in that improper control of such matters creates a public
nuisance, can lead to air pollution, fire hazards, illegal dumping, insect breeding, rodent
infestation, pollution to surface waters and other problems affecting the health, welfare, and safety
of the residents of this and surrounding cities. The City Council further finds that the periodic
collection of solid waste from all real properties with Generators in the City benefits all persons in
the City as well as the greater community. Accordingly, the collection of solid waste in the City is
a mandatory service and all owners of real property with Generators as defined in Section
13. 16. 020 are made liable for the payment of such fees as may be charged from time to time by
the City' s Contractor. The City Council further declares that the regulations provided in this
chapter are designated to eliminate or alleviate such problems and to provide procedures
complying with requirements placed upon the City by other regulatory bodies.
Prior Code 13- 1; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 020 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined as follows,
unless it is apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:
Agent" means any employee or agent of the City designated by the City Manager or City
Council as being responsible for directing, collecting, or providing for the collection, disposal and
transportation of solid waste.
Animal Waste" means manure, fertilizer or any form of excrement produced by any
and all forms of domestic animals or commercial livestock.
City" means the City of Vista as its boundaries now exist or may exist during the term of
this chapter.
City Council" means the Mayor and City Council of the City.
City Manager" means the City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
Collection" when used singly in this chapter, means the collection, transportation and
disposal of any and all forms of solid waste, as defined in this section.
Combustible Rubbish" includes paper, rags, discarded household bedding, packing
materials, cartons, boxes, containers, grass, plants, shrubs, trees, vines, and the prunings
thereof, shavings, sawdust, chips, lumber scraps, or other articles from lumberyards, mills or
factories and other articles which will burn upon contact with flames of ordinary temperature.
Combustible rubbish does not include those materials listed under " construction and demolition
debris," in this section.
Compost" has the meaning established by California Public Resources Codes Section
40116.
13. 16 (2) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Construction and Demolition Debris" includes dirt, sweepings, bricks, mortar, plaster,
and other building materials, whether combustible or noncombustible, resulting from the repair,
remodeling, demolition, or construction of buildings.
Contractor" means the solid waste collection contractor with whom the City Council has
entered into written agreement for the collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste within
the City.
County" means the County of San Diego.
Dwelling" has the meaning established by Vista Development Code 18. 02. 270.
Generator" means any persons, place of business, or dwelling that creates, produces,
or accumulates solid waste.
Green Waste" includes vegetative matter and plant debris, such as grass clippings,
leaves, pruning, weeds, branches, brush, holiday trees, and other forms of organic waste, all as
further defined and limited by the Contractor.
Hazardous Waste" has the meaning established by California Public Resources Code
Section 40141.
Littering" means the willful or negligent throwing, tossing, dropping, placing, depositing,
sweeping, or blowing with a mechanical device of any solid waste or recyclable on public sidewalk,
street, alleys, walkway, waters, waterway, water course, gutter, storm drain, park, railroad rightof-
way, open space, or other public property whether open to the public or not, except in a
receptacle designed for solid waste collection, recycling, or disposal.
Miscellaneous and Bulky Debris" means all solid waste not otherwise provided for in
the foregoing or following definitions including appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees,
branches, stumps, or amounts of solid waste collected at each collection in excess of the
maximum amounts permitted by this chapter, and other solid waste the size, weight, or volume of
which precludes or complicates their handling by normal collection methods.
Noncombustible Solid Waste" includes, among other things ashes, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, earthenware, metal cans, metalware, wire products, other articles of discarded
metal or stone of less than 20 pounds in weight each, automobile tires, inner tubes, batteries, and
metal kegs, barrels, or casks. Noncombustible solid waste shall not include those materials listed
under" construction and demolition debris," in this section.
Occupants" means and includes every owner of, and every tenant or person who is in
possession of, is the inhabitant of, or has the care and control of, an inhabited residence or place
of business.
Organic Waste" has the meaning established by California Public Resources Code
Section 42649.8.
Owner" means the legal owner or owners of real property with a Generator.
Person" as used in this chapter, means any individual, firm, corporation, association, or
group, or combination acting as a unit.
Place of Business" means any hotel, motel, lodging house, trailer court, restaurant,
cafeteria, market, hospital, or any educational, institutional, professional, commercial, or industrial
establishment where there is an accumulation of solid waste.
Single Family Dwelling" has the meaning established by Vista Development Code
18. 02.280.
Solid Waste" has the meaning established by the California Public Resources Code
section 40191. In addition, solid waste includes any material that may be recycled.
Streets" means the public streets, ways, alleys, and places, except state freeways, as
the same now or may hereafter exist within the City.
Truck" means any truck, trailer, semitrailer, conveyance or vehicle used or intended to
be used for the purpose of collecting solid waste or to haul or transport solid waste.
Prior Code 13- 2; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. 2014- 11, Amended to Add 6/ 24/ 14;
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 (3) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16.030 Burying Prohibited Generally
Except as provided in Section 13. 16. 040, no person shall bury any solid waste on any real
property within the City.
Prior Code 13- 3; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.040 Burying Permitted - Procedure-Effect of Health Officer's Order
Prohibiting
Organic Waste may be buried in the ground as part of ordinary non- commercial gardening
activity if the same is at once securely covered with earth to a depth of at least 12 inches in such
a manner as to prevent noticeable odors at adjoining property lines or attraction of rodents or
disease vectors; provided, such burial occurs no closer than 60 feet to any dwelling; provided,
further, that no person deposits any Organic Waste in such a manner that the same is or may
become a nuisance or endanger the public health, and that an order from the County Health
Officer prohibiting such deposit is final.
Prior Code 13- 4; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 050 Burning Prohibited Generally
The burning of any and all types of solid waste within the City is prohibited, with the
exception that agricultural crop wastes may be burned pursuant to permits issued by the Fire
Chief, or the Fire Chiefs designee in accord with Section 41855 of the Health and Safety Code.
Prior Code 13- 5; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.060 Solid Waste Collection Mandatory
It shall be the duty of every Owner to cause the provision of solid waste collection services
by the Contractor to the Generator.
Prior Code 13- 6; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 070 Frequency and Scheduling of Collection
All solid waste from a Generator shall be collected at least once each week. The City
Manager may, at the City Manager's discretion, or upon recommendation of the Contractor or the
County Health Officer, require more frequent pick-ups should the nature of a particular Generator
so require. The Contractor shall arrange collection routes so that pick-ups will be made on the
same day of each succeeding week, with the following exception: No collection will occur on
Memorial, Independence, Labor, Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day, contingent upon
advance notice to all those affected, in a manner satisfactory to the City Manager.
Prior Code 13- 7; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 080 Special Collections
A. Availability and Payment for Services. Any Generator desiring to have solid waste
collections more frequently than provided by this chapter or who has accumulated solid waste of
any type exceeding the maximum amount permitted per collection, or who has accumulated
miscellaneous, bulky, construction, or demolition debris shall enter in an agreement with the
Contractor for special collection service. Such service is rendered on terms mutually agreeable
to both parties and payment for service is made directly to the Contractor.
13. 16 (4) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Payment under Protest. Any Generator billed for special collection services and
who desires to contest the extent or reasonableness of the charge billed, shall make payment of
such charges under protest and, at the same time, file a written statement of protest with the City
Manager. Within 30 days after the date of filing, the City Manager shall notify the protesting party
of the decision and adjustment in the matter.
Prior Code 13- 8; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 090 Exemption from Mandatory Collection
A. Any Generator may request exemption from the requirement of Section 13. 16.060,
on condition that proof of the consent of the Owner and regular use of a county-authorized solid
waste facility is shown. Such proof of regular use shall consist of the following:
1. Single Family Dwellings. A minimum of 48 disposal receipts from a countyauthorized
solid waste facility. Receipts shall have been issued during that calendar year for which
exemption is requested and at intervals no greater than eight days.
2. Non- Dwelling Occupancies. Generally, the same requirements as specified
for Single Family Dwellings, above, with the following exception: the City Manager may, at the
City Manager's discretion or upon recommendation of the County Health Officer, require a greater
number of disposal receipts, issued at lesser intervals than specified above, should the nature of
the business in question demand more frequent disposal.
B. Applications for exemption shall be filed in writing with the City no later than
January 1 of each year, for approval or disapproval by the City Manager. First year exemptions are
granted upon proof of advance purchase of 24 dump passes or regular weekly self-disposal.
Subsequent applications by the same occupant shall be accompanied by proof of disposal during
the preceding year, as required above. This exemption status is revocable upon continued
violation of this chapter and upon recommendation of City Manager.
C. An exemption from the mandatory collection requirements of Section 13. 16. 060
may be granted to the owner of any property that is vacant for a period of 30 consecutive days or
more. Such exemption may be granted by the City Manager, or person authorized and designated
by him/ her, upon receipt of a written notice of other evidence in writing from the legal owner of
the property that the property is vacant and such additional information or evidence that the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee may require. Failure of the property owner to give written
notice of the vacancy in such time and in such manner as the City Manager may require shall
provide reasonable grounds for ineligibility or disallowance of the exemption until such time as
proper notice has been given. The City Manager shall establish the time and manner
requirements for proper notice by adoption of an administrative procedure.
Prior Code 13- 9; Ord. No. 86-4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 94- 29, Enacted Section C,
12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 100 Exemption from Payment - Economic Hardship
A. Any occupant of a Single Family Dwelling in the City may request exemption from
payment for mandatory collection services on grounds of economic hardship. For purposes of this
section, " economic hardship" means inability to pay, based on a combined family income falling
at or below poverty level in the calendar year preceding that in which exemption is requested.
Eligibility for exemption shall be determined based on the most recent figures for " Income at
Poverty Level by Family Size" published by the U. S. Bureau of Census. All requests for exemption
shall be accompanied by such certification of income deemed appropriate by the City Manager
and are decided by the City Manager. No person contracting for special collection services
pursuant to Section 13. 16. 080 of this chapter, is exempt from payment for such services.
13. 16 (5) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. There is created in the general fund an account for the payment of refuse
collection subsidies. It is debited for payment to the Contractor of regular monthly charges
incurred for provision of collection services to persons exempted pursuant to Subsection A of this
section.
Prior Code 13- 10; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.110 Unlawful Collection
It is unlawful for any person to collect solid waste within the City unless such person is
under written contract with the City to perform collection services or is exempted as outlined in
Subsections A, B, C, D, E, F, and G of this section. It is further unlawful for any person to permit,
allow, or enter into any agreement whatsoever for the collection of solid waste with any person not
the Contractor as defined in Section 13. 16.020, except as permitted in Subsections A, B, C, D, E,
F, and G of this section.
A. Subcontractors to the Contractor may perform such collection services as are
approved in writing by the City Manager.
B. The occupant of any premises may remove solid waste accumulated on premises
owned, occupied or controlled by that person and may dispose of the same in a lawful manner.
Except as provided in Section 13. 16. 090, exercise of this right does not exempt such person from
payment of the mandatory solid waste collection fee due to the Contractor as provided for under
terms of this chapter.
C. The collection and removal of lawn clippings, shrub and tree trimmings and other
vegetative matter by individual residents and by persons doing business as professional
landscapers, when such activity is directly related to their work, is exempt from provisions of this
section.
D. The Contractor is not required to collect hazardous or dangerous materials as part
of regular collection activity. Liquid and dry caustics, acids, biohazardous, flammable, or explosive
materials, insecticides, and similar substances shall instead be handled and disposed of under
separate agreement between Generator and Contractor or a designated subcontractor approved
by the City, under arrangements made with the City and in accord with provisions of the California
Health and Safety Code. Such agreements are exempt from the provisions of this section.
E. The Contractor is not required to collect infectious medical waste, as defined in
Section 25117. 5 of the California Health and Safety Code. Institutions producing and storing such
wastes and any person handling or disposing of such material shall do so only in the manner
approved by the County Health Officer or their designee and in accord with provisions of the
California Health and Safety Code. Such activity is exempt from the provisions of this section.
F. Individual residents and City-recognized nonprofit organizations may collect
recyclable materials including, but not limited to, glass, newspaper, aluminum, and cardboard for
transport to a City-approved or City-recognized recycling center, subject to the following
restrictions:
1. Collection of recyclables by residents is limited to premises owned,
occupied, or controlled by such persons.
2. This provision does not apply to recyclable building materials generated by
the repair, demolition, or construction of buildings, the rights to collection of which shall remain
with the Contractor or its designated subcontractor.
G. An entity described in California Public Resource Code Section 40059.4 may
contract to haul solid waste meeting all of the requirements of Subsection 40059.4( b), provided
that the hauler has a City of Vista Business License and complies with the requirements of
Sections 13. 16. 160, 13. 16. 170, 13. 16. 340, and 13. 16. 350 of this chapter.
Prior Code 13- 11; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 (6) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16. 120 Solid Waste Containers - Type and Construction
It is the duty of all occupants to provide containers for the accumulation and disposal of
solid waste as follows:
A. Residential Occupancies
1. Residential Solid Waste. The Contractor shall provide one ( 1) waste
disposal cart per dwelling unit for the storage of rubbish or garbage as herein defined. Two ( 2)
additional waste disposal carts may be rented by a resident, if such resident generates more than
95 gallons of municipal solid waste weekly, for a monthly fee determined by the Contractor.
Residents may not co- mingle either recyclables or green waste with municipal solid waste.
Material placed outside the cart will not be collected by the Contractor.
2. Residential Recyclables. The Contractor shall provide one ( 1) recycling
cart per dwelling unit for the storage and disposal of recycling material as defined by the
Contractor. The carts provided will be either 35- gallon or 65- gallon in capacity. Residents may
request two (2) additional recycling carts at no additional charge. Recycling material that may be
stored for weekly collection include: glass bottles and jars, aluminum and steel cans, plastic
beverage containers, all plastic containers marked with a 1- 7 recycling symbol on the bottom of
the container, cardboard, cardboard food containers ( cartons), newspaper, mixed paper, block
Styrofoam and other materials designated as recyclable by the Contractor. Residents may not
co- mingle rubbish, garbage, or green waste with recycling materials. Material placed outside the
cart will not be collected by the Contractor.
3. Residential Green Waste. The Contractor shall provide one green waste
disposal cart per dwelling unit for the storage of green waste or other organic material as required
by the Contractor. The carts provided will be 35-gallon, 65-gallon or 95- gallon in capacity
depending on the individual need of the residence. Residents may request up to two (2) additional
green waste carts at no additional cost. Additional green waste disposal carts may be rented by
a resident, if such resident generates more than 285 gallons of green waste weekly, for a monthly
fee determined by the Contractor. Green waste material that may be stored for weekly collection
include: grass clippings, weeds, brush, tree trimmings, leaves, flowers and other materials that
may be designated as recyclable by the Contractor. Residents may not co- mingle rubbish,
garbage or recyclables with green waste. The use of plastic bags for the storage or disposal of
green waste is prohibited. Material placed outside the cart will not be collected by the Contractor.
Prior Code 13- 12; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2002- 12, Amended, 03/ 26/ 02;
Ord. No. 2014- 11, Amended 6/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 130 Solid Waste Containers - Volume/Weight Limitations
The following volume/weight restrictions apply to solid waste and solid waste containers
placed for collection by the Contractor:
A. Residential Occupancies.
1. The following limitations shall apply:
a. Weight of Container: The container weight may not exceed the
maximum weight as defined by the cart manufacturer and stamped on the lid of the cart. The
Contractor has no obligation to serve an overweight cart.
b. Volume of Container: Residents may not overload the container and
are required to close all lids prior to the collection of the cart. Material sticking outside the top of
the cart is overloaded and the Contractor has no obligation to service an overloaded cart. The
Contractor is not obligated to collect any material that is placed outside of the cart on collection
day.
Prior Code 13- 13; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2002- 12, Amended, 03/ 26/ 02;
Ord. No. 2014- 11, Amended 06/ 24/ 14; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 (7) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16.140 Special Methods of Collection and Disposal
A. The removal of wearing apparel, bedding, or other solid waste from homes,
hospitals, or other places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed, shall be
performed at the occupant's expense, under the supervision and direction of the County Health
Officer and such solid waste shall neither be placed in solid waste containers nor left for regular
collection and disposal.
B. Highly inflammable or explosive or radioactive refuse shall not be placed in
containers or receptacles for regular collection and disposal, but shall be removed under the
supervision of the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief's designee at the expense of the owner or
possessor of the material.
C. Hazardous waste as defined in Section 13. 16. 020, shall not be placed in refuse
containers or left for regular collection and disposal. Such items shall be removed at the
occupant's expense only after arrangements have been made with the City or its agent for such
removal.
D. Solid waste containing water or other liquids shall be drained before being placed
in a container or receptacle. Matter which is subject to decomposition shall be wrapped in paper
or other material before being placed in a container or receptacle.
E. Animal waste, as defined in Section 13. 16. 020, shall not be placed in containers,
or receptacles for regular collection and disposal, but shall be removed at the occupant's expense.
Prior Code 13- 14; Ord. No. 86-4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2014- 11, Amended 6/ 24/ 14;
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 150 Placement of Containers for Collection
It is the duty of all occupants to set out containers for the collection of solid waste as
follows:
A. Location.
1. Residential Occupancies. All solid waste containers shall be placed at the
curb on the nearest public street fronting the premises occupied by the person depositing the
same, there to be collected by the Contractor; provided that the Contractor may designate some
other location for the placement of containers when such placement will expedite collection.
2. Business and Multiple Dwelling Occupancies. All solid containers shall be
placed within a permanently constructed trash enclosure, when available on premises. Should
such enclosure not exist and not be required by law, the Contractor shall designate some other
freely accessible location to expedite collection; provided that placement of containers at such
alternative location does not result in a hindrance to vehicle movement nor constitute a visual
nuisance.
B. Restrictions on Time of Placement. It is unlawful to place or permit to remain any
solid waste containers on the curbings, parkways, or sidewalks of any public street before 4: 00
p. m. on the day prior to collection, or after 6:00 p. m. on the day following collection, after materials
have been removed or collected.
C. Generally. All occupants shall maintain supervision and surveillance over solid
waste containers on their premises and shall maintain the same in a sanitary manner. Should
containers be placed for collection as required above and not be emptied on the date scheduled
by the Contractor, they should immediately notify the Contractor, whose duty it is to arrange for
the collection and disposal of such solid waste forthwith.
Prior code 13- 15; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 (8) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16. 160 Transporting Vehicles - Body Requirements
No person shall collect, remove, transport, or carry solid waste over the public streets of
the City except in vehicles having a metallic-lined, watertight body.
Prior Code 13- 16; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 170 Transporting Vehicles - Covering When Not in Use
When not actually collecting solid waste, the body of the vehicle used to collect such
material shall be covered with a tight-fitting tarpaulin or other suitable covering to eliminate
offensive odors, flies, leakage, or loss of solid waste.
Prior Code 13- 17; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 180 Unlawful Transportation through Public Streets
It is unlawful for anyone other than the Contractor pursuant to this chapter or those
persons as specifically permitted in this chapter to carry or transport solid waste in any manner
or amount within the City on or through any public street in the City.
Prior Code 13- 18; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.190 Unlawful to Place Infectious or Hazardous Waste in Solid Waste
Containers
It is unlawful for any person to place in any solid waste container for collection pursuant
to this chapter, operable hypodermic needles, drugs, poisons, or any infectious waste material,
liquid or dry caustics, or acids, bio-hazardous, radioactive, flammable or explosive materials,
insecticides, or any other hazardous waste as defined in this chapter. Such materials may be ( i)
collected only by the Contractor, its subcontractor, or as provided in Section 13. 16. 110 of this
chapter, and in the manner specified in Section 13. 16. 140 of this chapter; or ( ii) personally
delivered by the Owner or Generator for self-disposal at a licensed hazardous waste disposal
facility.
Prior Code 13- 19; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.200 Unsafe or Offensive Accumulation of Solid Waste Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to permit the accumulation of solid waste to become or remain
offensive, unsightly, unsafe to the public health or hazardous from fire.
Prior Code 13- 20; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 210 Interference with Solid Waste Containers Prohibited
No person shall interfere with or disturb any solid waste container, or remove the same
from where it has been placed for collection by its owner without having a written contract with
the City to collect and dispose of solid waste.
Prior Code 13- 21; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 220 Spilling of Solid Waste Prohibited
No person, including the Contractor authorized to collect solid waste, shall place, sweep,
spill or permit solid waste to fall upon any private grounds or public streets within the City.
Prior Code 13- 22; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 (9) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16. 230 No Parking of Loaded Trucks Overnight
No person shall leave trucks or other transport loaded with solid waste parked for over a
twenty-four-hour period on City streets.
Prior Code 13- 23; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 240 Franchise Agreement between Contractor and City
A. Contracts or franchise agreements executed to provide for solid waste disposal
shall conform to the terms of this chapter.
B. Provisions of this chapter do not preempt or negate terms of the franchise
agreement for solid waste collection and disposal services currently existing between the City and
the Contractor, unless such provisions of this chapter specifically conflict with terms of said
agreement. All terms of the franchise agreement not in specific conflict with this chapter are saved
from repeal and are continued in full force and effect.
Prior Code 13- 24; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.250 Contract Authority - Bond Required
The City Council has the power to let contracts for the removal, transportation and disposal
of solid waste as provided in this chapter, and may, as a condition of granting such contracts,
require a bond from any contractor, the amount of which shall be determined by the City Attorney
and set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 13- 25; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.260 Indemnification to City
Any grantee shall indemnify the City, its officers, and its employees against all claims,
demands, actions, suits, and proceedings resulting from the actions or operations of the Contractor
under terms of the franchise agreement by filing with the City Clerk, certificates of liability
insurance, property damage insurance, workers compensation insurance or other instrument(s)
acceptable to the City Attorney and set forth in the franchise agreement.
Prior Code 13- 26; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 270 Basis for Letting
In letting contracts authorized by this chapter, the City Council is not required to let
contracts to the lowest bidder, but is free to let such contracts to the person deemed best fitted
to comply with the terms of this chapter and the contract.
Prior Code 13- 27; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 280 Authority to Terminate, Relet Contract
Should the Contractor fail or refuse to comply with the conditions of this chapter and of
its contract to remove, transport, and dispose of solid waste and the Contractor has been given
written notice of noncompliance by the City Manager and the Contractor has further been given
30 days to correct such deficiencies, the City Council may, at its option and after a hearing, of
which the Contractor shall have ten days written notice, terminate the contract and let the contract
to another contractor deemed more capable of carrying out its terms.
Prior Code 13- 28; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 ( 10) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16. 290 Assignment or Transfer of Rights
No assignment or transfer of any right conferred by contract shall be made in whole or in
part by the Contractor without express written consent of the City. Should any assignment or
transfer be authorized by the City Council, the assignee shall assume the liability and such other
obligations of the contractors as may be related to the service performed.
Prior Code 13- 29; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 300 Solid Waste Collection, Spillage and Cleanup
The Contractor shall exercise all reasonable care and diligence in collecting solid waste
to prevent spilling, scattering, or dropping of solid waste, and shall at the time of occurrence clean
up any spillage.
Prior Code 13- 30; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 310 Solid Waste Disposal
The Contractor shall dispose of collected waste, at Contractor's expense, at an
authorized solid waste facility in a manner satisfactory to the City and in accordance with all state
and local laws and regulations.
Prior Code 13- 31; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 320 Collection from Public Parks and Government Buildings
The Contractor shall without charge, collect solid waste from City-controlled public parks,
playgrounds, City government buildings, and other City-controlled facilities, from the receptacles
in which the same is confined, and any receptacle in the business district belonging to the City,
on a service frequency and day(s) of collection to be determined by the City Manager.
Prior Code 13- 32; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 330 Contractor Participation in Special Cleanup Activities
The Contractor shall participate with the City in any annual cleanup activity upon request
of the City Manager as may be necessary to supplement the City' s available manpower and
equipment resources, and shall otherwise cooperate with the City Manager in resolving special
disposal related problems.
Prior Code 13- 33; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16.340 Vehicle Compliance with Codes and Regulations
The Contractor's trucks shall comply with the regulations as set forth in the California
Motor Vehicle Code, San Diego Air Pollution Control District, all other applicable California codes
and regulations, and this chapter.
Prior Code 13- 34; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 350 Compliance with Local and California Laws and Regulations
The Contractor shall operate in such a manner as to comply with all applicable local and
state laws and regulations pertaining to the collection, storage, and transportation of solid waste.
The Contractor shall also comply with all other ordinances and regulations of the City and
13. 16 ( 11) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
applicable laws and regulations of the County of San Diego and State of California, and shall
obtain and keep in force all required permits and business licenses.
Prior Code 13- 35; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 360 Continuance of Service in the Event of Nonpayment
In the event of nonpayment for collection service rendered to any person, the Contractor
shall continue to provide such service, subject to reimbursement as provided in Section 13. 16.410
of this chapter. This section does not apply to special collection services.
Prior Code 13- 36; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.370 Establishment of Charges
For the solid waste collection services described in this chapter, and for the making
available of such services, there shall be charged to each Generator the sums necessary to
cover the costs of such services, as such sums may be established pursuant to the City' s contract
with the Contractor. This section shall not apply to the CMTC Service Charge established in
Section 13. 16. 520 of this chapter.
Prior Code 13- 37; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.380 Basis for Charges
All charges provided for in this chapter shall be fair, reasonable, and consistent with the
scope of services rendered by the Contractor, as described and required by this chapter.
Prior Code 13- 38; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16.390 Liability for Payment
The obligation to pay the charges provided in this chapter is upon the Owner of the
dwelling or business so served. Nothing in this section, however, shall prevent an arrangement
or the continuance of an arrangement under which payments for solid waste collection services
are made by a tenant or tenants, or any agent, on behalf of the Owner; provided, any such
arrangement shall not affect the Owner's obligation for payment of said charges for services
rendered.
Prior Code 13- 39; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 400 Direct Bill by Contractor and Payment to Contractor
Contractor shall direct bill all Generators and all charges billed for solid waste collection
services, pursuant to Section 13. 16. 360 of this chapter, shall be paid directly to the Contractor.
Prior Code 13- 40; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 410 Failure to Pay Contractor for Solid Waste Collection
A. An account is deemed delinquent if payment for collection services has not been
received within 15 days after the last day of the normal billing period for which service was
rendered. Upon determination of delinquency, the Contractor shall give written notice to the
delinquent account holder and the Owner that the bill, including service fees and delinquency
charges, is now overdue and payable in full and shall attempt to collect payment through all
available means, within 30 days of the date of such notice.
13. 16 ( 12) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Provided adequate arrangements for payment have been made between the
contractor and delinquent account holder within 60 days of the end of the earliest unpaid billing
period, the Contractor may tender the total unpaid bill amount to the City Manager for payment
by the City. The tender shall provide all pertinent data including the name and address of the
delinquent account holder and the Owner, address and parcel number of the property billed, dates
of the period of service unpaid, amount due and certification that the billing procedures pursuant
to Subsection A of this section, has been fulfilled.
C. The delinquent bill presented by the Contractor to the delinquent account holder
and the Owner pursuant to Subsection A of this section, shall include a written notice warning that
nonpayment within 60 days of the end of the earliest unpaid period may result in tender of the
debt to the City for payment, and that this may result in collection efforts by the City and the
recordation of a lien against the property to which service was rendered.
D. Upon receipt of tender of the debt, the City Manager, or the City Manager's
designee, shall advise the delinquent account holder and the Owner in writing of the tender, and
that 30 days' notice is given to permit payment of the debt to the City to avoid a special
assessment against the real property in the amount of the debt.
E. Debts tendered to the City shall be paid to the Contractor on a quarterly basis as
they are collected by the City.
Prior Code 13- 41; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2013- 3, Repealed 4/ 23/ 13;
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 420 Special Assessment Collection
A. The City Manager may initiate proceedings to make delinquent solid waste
collection debts a special assessment against the real properties for which such debts were
tendered to the City for payment.
B. A report of delinquent charges shall be transmitted to the City Council, which shall
fix a time, date, and place for hearing the report and any protests or objections thereto.
C. The City Council shall cause notice of hearing to be mailed to the owner of real
property to which service was rendered not less than ten days prior to the date of hearing. At the
time fixed for said hearing, the City Council shall hear any objections of the owner liable to be
assessed for delinquent accounts. The City Council may make such revisions to the report as it
deems just and if satisfied with the correctness of the report as submitted or revised shall confirm
or reject it by resolution. The decision of the City Council on the report and on all protests or
objections thereto are final and conclusive.
D. Upon confirmation of the report by the City Council, the delinquent charges
contained therein shall constitute a special assessment against the property and shall be
forwarded to the San Diego County Auditor as provided by sections 39580 through 39586,
inclusive, of the Government Code of the State of California, to be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as ordinary real property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same
penalties and procedure of sale as provided for delinquent, ordinary real property taxes. The
assessments are subordinate to all existing special assessment liens previously imposed upon
the property and paramount to all other liens except those for state, county and municipal taxes
with which it has parity. The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest and penalties
due and payable thereon are paid. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of
municipal taxes are applicable to such special assessments.
E. The City Clerk may accept payment of any amount due at any time prior to the City
Council hearing, as called for in Subsection C.
F. There is created in the general fund an account entitled " Property Owners'
Delinquencies for Refuse Collection Service." This account shall be credited with such
delinquencies as are collected by the County Tax Collector or otherwise collected for release of
13. 16 ( 13) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
lien remitted to the City. The City will, in turn, debit the account for payment to the contractor of
tendered debts.
Prior Code 13- 42; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2013- 3, Repealed 4/ 23/ 13;
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 430 Duties Regarding Collection and Removal
A. The City Manager shall have the authority to administer the contract which
provides for the collection and removal of solid waste and shall approve routes and days for such
activities, as proposed by the Contractor in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
B. The City Manager shall have the authority to act on behalf of the City to effect
changes in routes and days of collection in cooperation with the Contractor, contingent upon
notice to all affected thereby, in a manner deemed most appropriate by the City Manager.
Prior Code 13- 43; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.440 City Manager to Settle Controversies
The City Manager is authorized and empowered to negotiate and settle any charge
required or made under the contract between the City and the Contractor.
Prior Code 13- 44; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 450 City Manager to Regulate and Approve Vehicles and Methods of
Hauling
The type and construction of vehicles transporting or carrying solid waste over public
streets and the method of hauling solid waste in vehicles is subject to the regulation and approval
of the City Manager.
Prior Code 13- 45; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 460 Making of Rules and Regulations
The City Manager shall have the authority to make other reasonable rules and regulations
concerning individual collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste over City streets by
the Contractor, subcontractors, other contractors, and private persons, as are found necessary.
Prior Code 13- 46; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 470 Notice of Violation
The City Manager is authorized and empowered to notify the owner, their authorized
representative or the lawful occupant of any premises described in this chapter, of violations of
this chapter, and of the corrective steps necessary to conform to this chapter. Notice shall be
given in writing and may be made to any person held responsible under this section by mail or
hand delivery.
Prior Code 13- 47; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 480 Violations of Certain Sections - Infraction
Except as provided in Section 13. 16.490, any violation of this chapter is unlawful and
constitutes an infraction, punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
The third infraction within a 12 month period constitutes a misdemeanor.
Prior Code 13- 48; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
13. 16 ( 14) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16.490 Violations of Section 13. 16. 190 - Misdemeanor
Disposal of infectious or hazardous waste, in violation of Section 13. 16. 190 of this chapter,
is unlawful and a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in Section 25189 of the California Health
and Safety Code.
Prior Code 13- 49; Ord. No. 86-4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86)
Section 13. 16. 500 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Revenue Fund
A California Mandated Trash Clean- Up ( CMTC) Fund of the City is hereby established.
The purposes of the CMTC Fund is to provide for the operation, maintenance, construction or
reconstruction, replacement costs, and debt service expense, and retirement, if any, for the
control, collection, and disposal of solid waste, excluding green waste, not placed in a proper
solid waste container, prior to entering surface waters. All revenues received from service
charges and other revenues not specifically allocated to other funds shall be deposited initially
to the CMTC Revenue Fund.
Prior Code 13- 50; Ord. No. 86- 4, Repealed and Replaced 1/ 28/ 86; Ord. No. 2019- 12, Amended 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16.510 California Mandated Trash Clean-Up Capital Fund
The California Mandated Trash Clean- Up ( CMTC) Capital Fund is hereby established.
The purposes of the CMTC Capital Fund is to provide for the construction or reconstruction,
installation, repairs and replacement of existing capital facilities, equipment, and
appurtenances necessary for the control, collection, and disposal of solid waste, excluding
green waste, not placed in a proper solid waste container, prior to entering surface waters.
Transfers to the CMTC Capital Fund shall be authorized from revenues received in the CMTC
Revenue Fund, including portions of the CMTC Service Charges, as directed by the City
Council with approval of the budget. The City Council may transfer such additional funds to
the CMTC Capital Fund as it deems prudent or necessary from any available sources in such
amounts as the City Council shall determine.
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 520 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Service Charge
There is hereby levied upon every solid waste Generator within the City limits of the
City of Vista a mandated trash clean- up service charge known as the CMTC Service Charge.
Revenues derived from CMTC Service Charges may be used for the operation, construction
or reconstruction, maintenance, repair, including debt service payment, and enforcement of
regulation for the control, collection, and disposal of solid waste not placed in a proper solid
waste container, prior to entering surface waters in the City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
Section 13. 16. 530 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Adoption of Rates
The City Council shall by resolution, from time to time, establish the CMTC Service
Charge upon each solid waste Generator based upon the actual or imputed type and size of
the Generator' s containers and the frequency of collection.
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 ( 15) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 16. 540 California Mandated Trash Clean- Up Method of Collection
The CMTC Service Charge shall be collected by the City' s Contractor and remitted to
the City as provided in the City' s contract with the Contractor.
Ord. No. 2019- 12, Added 9/ 10/ 19)
13. 16 ( 16) Vista 10/ 11/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 17
Construction and Demolition Debris Recycling
Sections:
13. 17. 010 Definitions
13. 17. 020 Construction and Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements
13. 17. 030 Submission of Waste Management Plan
13. 17. 040 Review of Waste Management Plan
13. 17. 050 Compliance with Waste Management Plan
13. 17. 060 Exemption
13. 17. 070 Administrative Penalty
13. 17. 080 Enforcement
Section 13. 17.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this Chapter 13. 17, the following definitions shall apply:
A. " Administrative Penalty" means any penalty or fine assessed to an applicant
pursuant to Section 13. 17. 070 of this chapter.
B. " Applicant" means any individual, firm, limited liability company, association,
partnership, political subdivision, government agency, municipality, industry, public or private for
profit or non- profit corporation, or any other entity whatsoever who applies to the City for the
applicable permits to undertake any construction, demolition, or renovation project within the
city.
C. " City Sponsored Project" means any project where the improvements are or
will be upon completion owned by the City.
D. " Construction" means the building of any improvement or any portion thereof
including any tenant improvements to an existing facility or structure.
E. " Construction and Demolition Debris" means used or discarded materials
removed from premises during construction or renovation of a structure resulting from
construction, remodeling, repair, deconstruction, or demolition operations on any pavement,
house, commercial building, or other structure.
F. " Conversion Rate" means the rate set forth in the standardized Conversion
Rate Table approved by the City pursuant to this chapter for use in estimating the volume or
weight of materials identified in a Waste Management Plan.
G. " Covered Project" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13. 17. 020 of this
chapter.
H. " Deconstruction" means the process of carefully dismantling a building or
structure in order to salvage components for reuse and recycling.
I. Demolition" means the decimating, razing, ruining, tearing down or wrecking of
any facility, structure, pavement or building, whether in whole or in part, whether interior or
exterior.
J. Divert" means to use construction or demolition debris for any purpose other
than disposal in a landfill or transformation facility.
K. " Diversion Requirement" means the redirection of at least 50 percent of the
total Construction and Demolition Debris generated by a project via reuse or recycling, unless
the Applicant has been granted an Exemption pursuant to Section 13. 17.060 of this chapter, in
which case the Diversion Requirement shall be the maximum feasible diversion rate established
by the WMP Compliance Official for the project.
13. 17 (l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
L. Final Building Approval" means acceptance by the City that all requirements
and conditions of the project have been met.
M. " Project" means any activity which requires an application for a building or
demolition permit or any similar permit from the City.
N. " Recycling" means the process of collecting, sorting, cleansing, treating, and
reconstituting materials that would otherwise become solid waste, and returning them to the
economic mainstream in the form of raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products
which meet the quality standards necessary to be used in the marketplace.
O. " Remodel" means any change, addition, or modification in an existing structure.
P. " Renovation" means any change, addition, or modification in an existing
structure.
Q. " Reuse" means further or repeated use of Construction or Demolition Debris.
R. " Salvage" means the controlled removal of Construction or Demolition Debris
from a permitted building or demolition site for the purpose of recycling, reuse, or storage for
later recycling or reuse.
S. " Total Costs" means the total construction value of the project as calculated by
the Community Development Department using the City' s standard commercial and residential
valuation formulas.
T. " Waste Management Plan" ( also referred to as " WMP") means a completed
WMP form, approved by the City for the purpose of compliance with this chapter, submitted by
the Applicant for any Covered Project.
U. " WMP Compliance Official" means the staff person( s) designated by the
Director of Engineering/ Public Works authorized and responsible for implementing this chapter.
V. " WMP Review Fee" means the fee for processing WMP applications as adopted
by the City Council by resolution, if any.
W. " WMP Report" means the final calculation of construction and demolition debris
diversion for the project as described in Section 13. 17. 050.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.020 Construction and Demolition Debris Diversion Requirements
All construction, renovation, and remodel projects within the city, including City
sponsored projects, with a total project value equal to or greater than $ 75,000, as calculated for
purposes of receiving a Vista building permit, and all demolition projects shall be considered
Covered Projects" and shall comply with this chapter. Failure to comply with any of the terms
of this chapter shall subject the project applicant to the full range of penalty and enforcement
mechanisms set forth in Sections 13. 17. 070 and 13. 17. 080 below. Compliance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be listed as a condition of approval on any building or demolition
permit issued for a covered project. Failure to include such a condition shall not relieve the
project applicant from complying with this chapter.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.030 Submission of Waste Management Plan
A. WMP Forms: Applicants for a plan check involving any covered project shall
complete and submit a Waste Management Plan (" WMP") on a form approved by the City for
this purpose before a building or demolition permit may be issued and be required to pay a
WMP Review Fee, if any. The WMP shall be submitted for review with the first plan check of an
individual project or at the first check of a residential master plan in the case of a residential
project. The completed WMP shall indicate all of the following:
13. 17 (2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Estimated weight of project C& D debris, by materials type, to be
generated;
2. Maximum weight of such materials that can feasibly be diverted via reuse
or recycling;
3. Vendor or facility that the applicant proposes to use to collect or receive
that material;
4. Estimated weight of C& D materials that will be landfilled; and
5. Total square footage of the project.
B. Calculating Weight of Debris: In estimating the weight of materials identified in
the WMP, the applicant shall use the standardized Conversion Rates approved by the WMP
Compliance Official for this purpose.
C. Deconstruction: In preparing the WMP, applicants for a plan check involving the
removal of all or part of an existing structure shall consider deconstruction, to the maximum
extent feasible, and shall make the materials generated thereby available for salvage prior to
sending to a landfill.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.040 Review of Waste Management Plan
A. Approval: Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, no plan check shall
be approved for any covered project unless and until the WMP Compliance Official has
approved the WMP. Approval shall not be required, however, where an emergency demolition,
as determined by the WMP Compliance Official, is required to protect public health or safety.
The WMP Compliance Official shall only approve a WMP if he or she first determines that all of
the following conditions have been met:
1. WMP provides all of the information set forth in Section 13. 17. 030 of this
chapter: and
2. WMP must indicate that at least 50 percent of all C& D debris generated
by the project will be diverted. If the WMP Compliance Official determines that all of the above
conditions have been met, he or she shall mark the WMP "Approved" and notify the Community
Development Department that the WMP has been approved.
B. Nonapproval: If the WMP Compliance Official detennines that the WMP is
incomplete or fails to indicate that at least 50 percent of all C& D debris generated by the project
will be reused or recycled, he or she shall either:
1. Contact the applicant to discuss the WMP, make recommendations for
additional diversion, and obtain and note verbal confirmation from the applicant of changes to
the WMP that would meet the requirements of this chapter, or;
2. Return the WMP to the applicant marked " Denied", including a statement
of reasons, and so notify the Community Development Department, which shall withhold permit
issuance until the WMP is resubmitted and approved, or;
3. Return the WMP to the applicant marked " Further Explanation Required."
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the decisions of the WMP Compliance
Official with regard to this section shall be final.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.050 Compliance with Waste Management Plan
A. Documentation: Prior to Final Building Approval the applicant shall submit to the
WMP Compliance Official documentation that it has met the Diversion Requirement for the
project. If the applicant does not submit the required documentation he or she may be subject
to an Administrative Penalty or enforcement action as described in Sections 13. 17. 070 and
13. 17 (3) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
13. 17. 080 of this chapter. The Diversion Requirement shall be that the applicant must divert at
least 50 percent of the total C& D debris generated by the project via reuse or recycling.
Provided, however, that an applicant granted an exemption pursuant to Section 13. 17.060 of
this chapter shall be required to comply with the maximum feasible diversion rate established by
the WMP Compliance Official for that project. The documentation for compliance shall include
all of the following:
1. Copies of receipts from the vendor or facility which collected or received
each material showing the actual weight of that material.
2. A copy of the previously approved WMP for the project adding the actual
weight of each material diverted and landfilled.
3. Any additional information the applicant believes is relevant to
determining its efforts to comply in good faith with this chapter.
B. Weighing of Wastes: Applicants shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that all
C& D debris diverted or landfilled is measured and recorded using the most accurate method of
measurement available. To the extent practical, all C& D debris shall be weighed by
measurement on scales. Such scales shall be in compliance with all regulatory requirements
for accuracy and maintenance. For C& D debris for which weighing is not practical due to small
size or other considerations, a volumetric measurement shall be used. For conversion of
volumetric measurements to weight, the applicant shall use the standardized conversion rates
approved by the City for this purpose.
C. Determination of Compliance and Assessment of an Administrative Penalty: The
WMP Compliance Official shall review the information submitted under Sections 13. 17. 030 and
13. 17. 040 of this chapter and determine whether the applicant has complied with the Diversion
Requirement, as follows:
1. Full Compliance: If the WMP Compliance Official determines that the
applicant has fully complied with the Diversion Requirement applicable to the project, he or she
shall approve the final WMP Report.
2. Good Faith Effort to Comply: If the WMP Compliance Official determines
that the Diversion Requirement has not been achieved, he or she shall determine on a case- bycase
basis whether the Applicant has made a good faith effort to comply with this Chapter
13. 17. In making this determination, the WMP Compliance Official shall consider the availability
of markets for the C& D debris landfilled, the size of the project, and the documented efforts of
the applicant to divert C& D debris. If the WMP Compliance Official determines that the applicant
has made a good faith effort to comply with this Chapter 13. 17, he or she may approve the final
WMP Report or assess an Administrative Penalty as described under Section 13. 17. 070 of this
chapter. Any penalty assessed must be paid to the City prior to final building approval.
3. Noncompliance: If the WMP Compliance Official determines that he
applicant has not made a good faith effort to comply with this Chapter 13. 17, or if the applicant
fails to submit the documentation required by 13. 17. 050 ( A) of this chapter, then the applicant
may be assessed an Administrative Penalty as described under Section 13. 17. 070 of this
chapter and/ or be prosecuted for a criminal violation under Section 13. 17. 080 of this chapter or
use any other legal remedy which may be available. Any penalty assessed must be paid to the
City prior to final building approval.
4. The WMP Compliance Official upon determining non- compliance with this
chapter shall notify the applicant of the WMP Report findings. The notice shall be in writing and
shall identify the specific noncompliance with the WMP by the applicant and inform the applicant
that it has a right to a hearing to appeal the decision of the WMP Compliance Official. The
applicant's request for a hearing must be made in writing and received by the WMP Compliance
Official no later than the City' s close of business on the seventh calendar day from the mailing
date ( as determined by postmark) of the non- compliance notice. A hearing shall be held no
earlier than ten calendar days and no later than 30 calendar days following the receipt by the
13. 17 (4) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
WMP Compliance Official of the written request for hearing. The City Manager or his or her
designee shall serve as the hearing officer. The applicant shall be permitted to submit
evidence. The rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing officer may consider any relevant
evidence. The applicant shall not be entitled to cross- examine any witnesses. The applicant
shall be notified in writing of the decision of the hearing officer. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Municipal Code ( including Section 13. 17. 010) the decision of the hearing officer
shall be final. If the hearing officer determines that the applicant has failed to comply with the
WMP as required by 13. 17 . 050 A of this chapter, then the applicant may be assessed an
Administrative Penalty as described under Section 13. 17.070 of this chapter and be prosecuted
for a criminal violation under Section 13. 17. 080 of this chapter or use any other legal remedy
which may be available.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.060 Exemption
A. Application: If an applicant for a covered project experiences unique
circumstances that the applicant believes make it infeasible to comply with the Diversion
Requirement, the applicant may apply for an exemption at the time that he or she submits the
WMP required under Section 13. 17.030 of this chapter. The applicant shall indicate on the
WMP the maximum rate of diversion he or she believes is feasible for each material and the
specific circumstances that he or she believes make it infeasible to comply with the Diversion
Requirement.
B. Meeting with WMP Compliance Official: The WMP Compliance Official shall
review the information supplied by the applicant and may meet with the applicant to discuss
possible ways of meeting the Diversion Requirement.
C. Granting of Exemption: the WMP Compliance Official shall issue an infeasibility
exemption if he or she can make one or more of the following findings:
1. That circumstances exist which are unique to the project to the effect that
compliance with the provisions of this chapter would create an unusual burden on the project
which is different than that of similarly situated properties; or
2. That for a specific project compliance with this chapter would result in
minimal or no increase in recycled materials or reduction in waste stream; or
3. That diversion of one or more substances involved in the project presents
unique and burdensome obstacles and would create an especially onerous economic burden on
the project unless diversion of that substance is reduced or eliminated.
If the WMP Compliance Official is able to make one or more of the above
findings for a project he or she may excuse the project from compliance with this chapter or
determine the maximum feasible reduced diversion rate for each material and shall indicate this
rate on the WMP submitted by the Applicant. The WMP Compliance Official shall return a copy
of the WMP to the applicant marked " Approved for Exemption" and shall notify the Community
Development Department that the WMP has been approved.
D. Denial of Exemption: If the WMP Compliance Official is unable to make any of
the findings required by " C" above he or she shall so inform the applicant in writing. The
applicant shall have 30 days to resubmit a WMP form in full compliance with Section 13. 17. 030
of this chapter. If the applicant fails to resubmit the WMP, or if the resubmitted WMP does not
comply with Section 13. 17.030 of this chapter, the WMP Compliance Official shall deny the
WMP in accordance with Section 13. 17.050 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this code the determination of the WMP Compliance Officer shall be final.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
13. 17 (5) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 17.070 Administrative Penalty
Any applicant who does not comply with any requirement of this chapter may be
assessed an Administrative Penalty for non- compliance. The amount of the penalty assessed
may be up to $ 1, 000. The WMP Compliance Official upon determining non- compliance with this
chapter shall notify the applicant of the penalty assessed against it. The notice shall be in
writing and shall identify the amount of the penalty assessed, the specific noncompliance for
which the penalty is being assessed and inform the applicant that it has a right to a hearing to
appeal the validity or amount of the assessed penalty pursuant to Section 13. 17. 050( C)( 4). The
applicant' s request for a hearing must be made in writing and received by the WMP Compliance
Official no later than the City' s close of business on the seventh calendar day from the mailing
date ( as determined by postmark) of the penalty notice. A hearing shall be held no later than
ten days following the receipt by the WMP Compliance Official of the written request for hearing.
The City Manager or his or her designee shall serve as the hearing officer. The applicant shall
be notified in writing of the decision of the hearing officer. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Municipal Code ( including Section 13. 17. 010) the decision of the hearing officer shall be
final. Any penalty assessed must be paid to the City prior to final building approval. Nothing in
this chapter precludes the use of any other type of enforcement if administrative fines are
imposed under this section.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
Section 13. 17.080 Enforcement
Any person responsible for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the City from initiating a civil action to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. If the City shall prevail in any such civil action it shall be
entitled to attorney fees.
Ord. No. 2006- 19, Enacted 10/ 10/ 06)
13. 17 (6) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 13. 18
Stormwater Management and Discharge Control Program
Sections:
13. 18. 010 Title
13. 18. 020 Purpose
13. 18. 030 Definitions
13. 18. 040 General Provisions
13. 18. 045 Watercourse Protection
13. 18. 050 Discharge Prohibitions
13. 18. 060 Exemptions to Discharge Prohibitions
13. 18. 070 BMP Requirements for All Dischargers
13. 18. 080 BMP Requirements for Land Disturbance Activity
13. 18. 090 BMP Requirements for Land Development and Redevelopment Projects
13. 18. 100 Maintenance of BMPs
13. 18. 110 Inspection and Sampling
13. 18. 120 Enforcement Authority
13. 18. 130 Other Acts or Omissions
13. 18. 140 Penalties
13. 18. 150 Severability
Section 13. 18.010 Title
This Chapter shall be known as the " Stormwater Management and Discharge Control
Ordinance."
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.020 Purpose
The purposes of this Chapter are as follows:
A. To establish requirements for discharges into the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System ( MS4), receiving waters, and the environment.
B. To protect, to the maximum extent practicable ( MEP), life, property, receiving
waters, aquatic life, and the environment from loss, injury, degradation, or damage by discharges
from within the City' s jurisdiction.
C. To protect the MS4 from damage.
D. To meet the requirements of state and federal law and the City of Vista' s ( City's)
MS4 Permit.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.030 Definitions
When used in this Chapter and reference documents (including the Stormwater Standards
Manual), the following definitions shall have the meanings given by this Section, whether or not
these words or phrases are capitalized:
Advanced Treatment" means using mechanical or chemical means to flocculate and
remove suspended sediment from runoff from construction sites prior to discharge.
13. 18 ( l) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Authorized Enforcement Staff" means any City employee or contractor hired by the
City who is assigned to duties involving permits and other City approvals, inspections, or
enforcement related to this Chapter.
Authorized Enforcement Official" means the City Manager or his/ her designee who is
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this Chapter.
Best Management Practices" or " BMPs" are the schedules of activities, pollution
treatment practices or devices, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping practices,
pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices or devices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or the " MS4". Best Management Practices also include, but are not
limited to, treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage
or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. Best Management
Practices may include any type of pollution prevention and pollution control measure that can help
to achieve compliance with this Chapter.
Channel" means natural or improved watercourse with a definite bed and banks that
conveys continuously or intermittently flowing water.
City" means the City of Vista.
Contamination" as defined in the Porter- Cologne Water Quality Control Act, is " an
impairment of the quality of waters of the State by waste to a degree which creates a hazard to
the public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease. Contamination includes any
equivalent effect resulting from the disposal of waste whether or not waters of the State are
affected."
County" means the County of San Diego.
Developer" is a person who seeks or receives permits for or who undertakes land
development activities.
Development Project Proponent" refers to Developer.
Direct Discharge" means stormwater or non- stormwater that enters receiving waters
from a facility or activity, without mixing with any stormwater or non- stormwater from another
facility or activity prior to entering such receiving waters.
Discharge" when used as a verb, means to allow pollutants to directly or indirectly enter
stormwater, or to allow stormwater or non- stormwater to directly or indirectly enter the " MS4" or
receiving waters, from an activity or operations, which one owns or operates. When used as a
noun, discharge means the pollutants, stormwater and/ or non- stormwater that is discharged.
Discharger" is any person or entity engaged in activities or operations or owning
facilities, which will or may result in pollutants entering stormwater, the" MS4", or receiving waters;
and the owners of real property on which such activities, operations or facilities are located;
provided, however, that a local government or public authority is not a discharger as to activities
conducted by others in public rights- of-way.
Erosion" refers to any process in which land is diminished or worn away due to wind,
water, or glacial ice. Often the eroded debris ( silt or sediment) becomes a pollutant via storm
water runoff. Erosion occurs naturally but can be intensified by land- clearing activities such as
farming, development, road building, and timber harvesting.
Groundwater" means subsurface water that occurs beneath the water table in soils and
geologic formations that are fully saturated.
Illegal Connection" means a pipe, facility, or other device connected to the " MS4" or
receiving waters, which has not been authorized by the City; or a permitted/ authorized pipe,
facility, or other device, which conveys illegal discharges.
Illegal Discharge" is any discharge into the MS4 or receiving waters that is prohibited
by this Chapter. This includes, but is not limited to, discharges of non- stormwater that are not
exempt discharges listed in Section 13. 18. 060, discharges of irrigation runoff to the " MS4", any
discharge from an illegal connection, and any discharge that contains additional pollutants due to
13. 18 ( 2) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
the absence of a required BMP or the failure of a BMP. Discharges that require a City permit or
an RWQCB permit that has not been issued or has not been acknowledged by the discharger to
be applicable are illegal discharges. Discharges regulated under an applicable NPDES Permit
are illegal discharges for purposes of this Chapter, unless compliance with all applicable permit
and SWPPP conditions are maintained.
Impaired Water Body" is a water body that is listed by the "RWQCB" and " SWRCB" as
impaired by a particular pollutant or pollutants, pursuant to Section 303(d) of the Federal Clean
Water Act. " 303( d)- Listed Water Body" has the same meaning.
Impervious Cover or Impervious Surface" refers to constructed or modified surfaces
that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall. The term includes, but is not limited to, building rooftops,
pavement, sidewalks, and driveways.
Impervious Surface Area" means the ground area covered or sheltered by an
impervious surface, measured in plan view ( i. e., as if from directly above). For example, the
impervious surface area for a pitched roof is equal to the ground area it shelters, rather than the
surface area of the roof itself.
Industrial Stormwater Permit" is the State General Industrial Stormwater Permit.
Land Development Activity" is any activity or proposed activity that requires any of the
permits or approvals listed in Section 13. 18. 040. 0 of this Chapter.
Land Disturbance Activity" is any activity that moves soils or substantially alters the
pre- existing vegetated or man- made cover of any land. This includes, but is not limited to, grading,
digging, cutting, scraping, stockpiling or excavating of soil; placement of fill materials; paving,
pavement removal, exterior construction; substantial removal of vegetation where soils are
disturbed, including, but not limited to, removal by clearing or grubbing; or any activity which bares
soil or rock or involves streambed alterations or the diversion or piping of any watercourse. Land
disturbance activity does not include routine maintenance to maintain original line and grade,
hydraulic capacity, or the original purpose of the facility, nor does it include emergency
construction activities ( i. e., land disturbances) required to protect public health and safety.
Land Owner" is the holder of legal title to the land, and other persons or entities who
exercise control over a land development project pursuant to rights granted in a purchase
agreement, joint venture agreement, development agreement, or long term lease.
Maintenance of a BMP" refers to the regular action taken to maintain the as- designed
performance of a BMP, and includes, but is not limited to, repairs to the BMP as necessary, and
replacement of the BMP by an equally effective or more effective BMP at the end of its useful life.
Maximum Extent Practicable" " MEP" is an acceptability standard for Best
Management Practices (BMPs). When BMPs are required to meet this standard, the BMPs must
be the most effective set of BMPs that are still practicable. A BMP is effective if it prevents,
reduces or removes the pollutants that would otherwise be present in runoff due to human activity.
A BMP is practicable if: it complies with other regulations as well as stormwater regulations; is
compatible with the area' s land use, character, facilities, and activities; is technically feasible
considering area soil, geography, water resources, and other resources available); is
economically feasible; and provides benefits that are reasonable in relation to costs.
MS4 Permit" refers to RWQCB Order No. R9-2013- 0001, NPDES Permit No.
CAS0109266, as may be amended.
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System" or " MS4" means a conveyance or system
of conveyances ( including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man- made channels, or storm drains): ( i) Owned or operated by a state, city,
town, borough, county, parish, district, association, or other public body ( created by or pursuant
to state law) having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, storm water, or other
wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer district, flood control district or
drainage district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal organization, or
designated and approved management agency under Section 208 of the CWA that discharges to
13. 18 ( 3) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
waters of the United States; ( ii) Designated or used for collecting or conveying storm water; ( iii)
Which is not a combined sewer; ( iv) Which is not part of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works
POTW" as defined at 40 CFR 122. 26.
Non- Storm Water Discharge" is any discharge to the Storm Water Conveyance System
or " Receiving Waters" that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
NPDES Permit" is a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit issued by
the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, the "SWRCB", or the " RWQCB".
Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, organization, enterprise, or
similar entity whether for profit or nonprofit.
Pollutant" means any agent that may cause or contribute to the degradation of water
quality such that a condition of pollution or contamination is created or aggravated.
Pollution" as defined in the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act, is " the alteration
of the quality of the waters of the State by waste, to a degree that unreasonably affects either of
the following: 1) The waters for beneficial uses; or 2) Facilities that serve these beneficial uses."
Pollution may include contamination.
Premises" means any building, lot parcel, land or portion of land whether improved or
unimproved.
Priority Development Project" " PDP" refers to new development and redevelopment
project categories as more fully set forth in Section E. 3. b of the MS4 Permit and in the" Stormwater
Standards Manual."
Public Nuisance" has the same meaning as in Vista Municipal Code Section 8. 36. 030.
Receiving Waters" refers to all waters that are "waters of the state" within the scope of
the State Water Code, including, but not limited to, natural streams, creeks, rivers, reservoirs,
lakes, ponds, water in vernal pools, lagoons, estuaries, bays, the Pacific Ocean, and ground
water.
Redevelopment" is the creation, addition, and or replacement of impervious surface on
an already developed site. Examples include the expansion of a building footprint, road- widening,
the addition to or replacement of a structure, and creation or addition of impervious surfaces.
Replacement of impervious surfaces includes any activity that is not part of a routine maintenance
activity where impervious material( s) are removed, exposing underlying soil during construction.
Redevelopment does not include trenching and resurfacing associated with utility work;
resurfacing and reconfiguring surface parking lots and existing roadways, new sidewalk
construction, pedestrian ramps, or bike lane on existing roads; or routine replacement of damaged
pavement, such as pothole repair.
Runoff" means all flows in an MS4, including stormwater (wet weather flows) and nonstormwater
( dry weather flows).
RWQCB" means the California Regional Water Quality Control Board for the San Diego
Region.
State" means the State of California.
State General Construction Stormwater Permit" refers to " NPDES" Permit No.
CAS000002, as may be amended.
State General Industrial Stormwater Permit" refers to NPDES Permit No.
CAS000001, as may be amended.
Stop Work Order" is an order issued which requires that specifically identified activity
or all activity on a site be stopped.
Storm Water Quality Management Plan" or" SWAMP" is a report that documents how
a Priority Development Project complies with applicable BMP requirements for land development
and redevelopment activities listed in the " Stormwater Standards Manual."
Stormwater" refers to the surface runoff and drainage associated with storm events.
13. 18 ( 4) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Stormwater Management" is the use of structural or non- structural BMPs that are
designed to reduce urban runoff pollutant loads, discharge volumes, and/ or peak discharge flow
rates or velocities. When applied to the City, the County or another municipality, stormwater
management also includes planning and programmatic measures.
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan" " SWPPP" is a document that meets the
requirements for an " SWPPP" set out in the State General Construction Stormwater Permit or
State General Industrial Stormwater Permit.
Stormwater Standards Manual" refers to the manual described in Section 13. 18. 040. B.
Structural BMP" A subset of BMPs that detains, retains, filters, removes, or prevents
the release of pollutants to surface waters from development projects in perpetuity, after
construction of a project is completed. This subset of BMPs requires regular maintenance to
function as designed.
Structural Post-Construction BMP" is a structural BMP ( other than a temporary
construction- related BMP) put in place in connection with a land development activity or
redevelopment project to prevent or reduce contamination in stormwater or receiving waters, or
to prevent or reduce erosion downstream from the project.
SWRCB" means the State Water Resources Control Board.
Watercourse" is a permanent or intermittent stream, creek, or other body of water, either
natural or improved, which gathers or carries surface water.
Water Pollution Control Plan" ( WPCP) is a document that describes the BMPs to be
implemented by the Land Owner or Discharger to eliminate or reduce to the MEP discharges of
pollutants to the MS4. A WPCP must include all measures necessary to comply with this Chapter
and the Stormwater Standards Manual to the satisfaction of Authorized Enforcement Staff. A
WPCP is typically shorter than an SWPPP. An SWPPP may be accepted in lieu of a WPCP at
the discretion of Authorized Enforcement Staff.
Water Quality Standards" are defined as the beneficial uses ( e. g., swimming, fishing,
municipal drinking water supply, etc.) of water and the water quality objectives adopted by the
State or the United States Environmental Protection Agency to protect those uses.
Waters of the United States" are waters subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the
United States under the Federal Clean Water Act and applicable case law. ( In general, this
includes navigable waters, waters tributary to navigable waters, and adjacent wetlands.)
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.040 General Provisions
A. Construction and Application. Interpretation of the meanings of parts of this
Chapter shall assure consistency with the purpose and intent of this Chapter. This includes, but
is not limited to, consistency with the requirements of the MS4 Permit. This Chapter is not intended
to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other
provision of law. The requirements of this Chapter should be considered minimum requirements,
and where any provision of this Chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more
restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall take
precedence.
B. Stormwater Standards Manual. The Authorized Enforcement Official may establish
a written description of the runoff management measures and programs, including minimum
BMPs that the City will implement, or require to be implemented, to ensure compliance with this
Chapter. These documents shall be known collectively as the Stormwater Standards Manual.
Amendments to the Stormwater Standards Manual shall be approved by the Authorized
Enforcement Official. The Stormwater Standards Manual shall have the same force and effect as
13. 18 ( 5) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
the provisions of this Chapter, and a violation of the Stormwater Standards Manual shall constitute
a violation of this Chapter and be subject to all remedies and penalties as exist for a violations of
the provisions of this Chapter. A copy of the Stormwater Standards Manual, and all amendments
thereto, shall be posted to the City' s website.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.045 Watercourse Protection
A. Every person owning or occupying property through which a natural watercourse
of a stormwater conveyance system passes shall:
1. Keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within the property free of
trash, debris and other materials that would pollute, contaminate, retard, or divert the flow
of water through the watercourse or the MS4.
2. Maintain existing structures within or adjacent to such a watercourse so
that those structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of
the watercourse or the MS4.
3. Not remove healthy bank vegetation beyond that necessary for
maintenance, nor remove vegetation in such a manner as to increase the vulnerability of
the watercourse to erosion.
4. Not deposit in, plant in, or remove any material from a watercourse,
including its banks, except as required for necessary maintenance.
5. Not construct, alter, enlarge, connect to, change, or remove any structure
in a watercourse.
6. Not carry out developments within 50 feet of the centerline of any
watercourse or 20 feet from the top of a bank of a watercourse, whichever is the greater
distance from the centerline of the watercourse.
B. The above requirements do not supersede any requirements set forth by the
California Department of Fish and Game, the SWRCB, the RWQCB, or the United States Army
Corps of Engineers regulating waters of the United States and/ or storm water discharges.
Ord. No. 2002- 24, Added, 11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016-
10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.050 Discharge Prohibitions
A. Illegal Discharges. Illegal discharges are prohibited except where exempted in
Section 13. 18. 060 of this Chapter. As defined in Section 13. 18. 030 of this Chapter, illegal
discharges include, but are not limited to, discharges of non- stormwater that are not exempt,
discharges listed in Section 13. 18. 060, discharges of irrigation runoff to the MS4, any discharge
from an illegal connection, and any discharge that contains additional pollutants due to the
absence of a required BMP or the failure of a BMP. Discharges that require a City permit or an
RWQCB permit that has not been issued or has not been acknowledged by the discharger to be
applicable are illegal discharges. Discharges regulated under an applicable NPDES Permit are
illegal discharges for purposes of this Chapter unless compliance with all applicable permit and
SWPPP conditions are maintained.
B. Illegal Connection. The establishment of illegal connections is prohibited. As
defined in Section 13. 18. 030 of this Chapter, illegal connection means a pipe, facility, or other
device connected to the MS4 or receiving waters, which has not been authorized by the City; or
a permitted/authorized pipe, facility, or other device, which conveys illegal discharges. The use of
illegal connections is prohibited, even if the connection was established pursuant to a valid City
or County Permit and was legal at the time it was constructed.
13. 18 ( 6) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Prevention of Illegal Discharges. Throwing, depositing, leaving, abandoning,
maintaining or keeping materials or wastes on public or private lands in a manner and place where
they may result in an illegal discharge is prohibited.
D. Violations of the MS4 Permit. It is unlawful for any person to, jointly or individually,
cause by action or omission a condition, occurrence, event, or situation which causes or threatens
to cause any discharge into or from the MS4 that results in or contributes to a violation of the MS4
Permit.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.060 Exemptions to Discharge Prohibitions
A. Permitted Discharges. Any discharge to the MS4 that is regulated under an
NPDES permit issued to the discharger and administered by the State of California pursuant to
Division 7 of the California Water Code is allowed, provided that the discharger is in compliance
with all requirements of the NPDES permit and other applicable laws and regulations.
B. Groundwater Discharges Typically Requiring Permits. Non- storm water
discharges to the MS4 from the following categories are allowed if: ( i) the discharger obtains
coverage under NPDES Permit No. CAG919002 ( RWQCB Order No. R9- 2008- 0002, or
subsequent order) for discharges to surface waters other than San Diego Bay, and the discharger
is in compliance with all requirements of the applicable NPDES permit and all other applicable
laws and regulations; or( ii) the RWQCB determines in writing that coverage under NPDES Permit
No. CAG919002 ( or subsequent permit) is not required. Otherwise, non- storm water discharges
from the following categories are illicit discharges:
1. Discharges from uncontaminated pumped groundwater.
2. Discharges from foundation drains when the system is designed to be
located at or below the groundwater table to actively or passively extract groundwater during any
part of the year.
3. Discharges from water from crawl space pumps.
4. Discharges from water from footing drains when the system is designed to
be located at or below the groundwater table to actively or passively extract groundwater during
any part of the year.
C. Discharges from Water Lines. Non- storm water discharges to the MS4 from water
line flushing and water main breaks are allowed if the discharges have coverage under NPDES
Permit No. CAG679001 ( Regional Water Quality Control Board Order No. R9- 2010- 0003, or
subsequent order), and the discharger is in compliance with all requirements of that NPDES
permit and other applicable laws and regulations. This category includes water line flushing and
water main break discharges from water purveyors issued a water supply permit by the California
Department of Public Health or federal military installations. Discharges from recycled or
reclaimed water lines to the MS4 are allowed if the discharges have coverage under an NPDES
permit, and the discharger is in compliance with the applicable NPDES permit and other
applicable laws and regulations. Otherwise, discharges from water lines are illicit discharges.
D. Allowable Discharges. Non- storm water discharges to the MS4 from the following
categories are allowed, unless the enforcement official or the Regional Water Quality Control
Board identifies the discharge as a source of pollutants to receiving waters, in which case the
discharge is considered an illicit discharge:
1. Discharges from diverted stream flows.
2. Discharges from rising groundwater.
3. Discharges from uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to the MS4.
4. Discharges from springs.
5. Discharges from flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
13. 18 ( 7) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
6. Discharges from potable water sources, except as set forth in Vista
Municipal Code Section 13. 18. 060. C.
7. Discharges from foundation drains when the system is designed to be
located above the groundwater table at all times of the year, and the system is only expected to
produce non- storm water discharges under unusual circumstances.
8. Discharges from footing drains when the system is designed to be located
above the groundwater table at all times of the year, and the system is only expected to produce
non- storm water discharges under unusual circumstances.
E. Conditionally Allowed Discharges. Non- storm water discharges from the following
categories are allowed if they are addressed as follows. Otherwise, non- storm water discharges
from the following categories are illicit discharges:
1. Air Conditioning Condensation. Air conditioning condensation discharges
shall comply with applicable BMPs identified in the Stormwater Standards Manual.
2. Individual Residential Vehicle Washing. Wash water from individual
residential vehicle washing must be directed to landscaped areas or other pervious surfaces,
where feasible. Where discharges cannot be feasibly prevented, BMPs must be implemented in
accordance with the Stormwater Standards Manual. Non- commercial car washes, such as
fundraisers and other similar activities, are not considered individual residential vehicle washing.
Discharges from such activities are therefore considered illegal discharges.
3. Water from swimming pools.
a. Chlorinated Swimming Pool Water. Chlorine, algaecide, filter
backwash, and other pollutants shall be eliminated prior to discharging swimming pool water to
the MS4.
b. Saline Swimming Pool Water. Saline swimming pool water must be
directed to the sanitary sewer, landscaped areas, or other pervious surfaces that can
accommodate the volume of water, unless the saline swimming pool water can be discharged
directly to a naturally saline water body.
F. Firefighting Activities. Non- storm water discharges to the MS4 from firefighting
activities are allowed if they are addressed as follows:
1. Non- Emergency Firefighting Discharges. Non- emergency firefighting
discharges, including building fire suppression system maintenance discharges( e. g. sprinkler line
flushing), controlled or practice blazes, training, and maintenance activities shall be addressed by
BMPs to prevent the discharge of pollutants to the MS4.
2. Emergency Firefighting Discharges. BMPs are encouraged to prevent
pollutants from entering the MS4. During emergencies, priority of efforts should be directed toward
life, property, and the environment( in descending order). BMPs shall not interfere with emergency
response operations or impact public health and safety.
G. Exemptions not Absolute. Notwithstanding the categories of non- storm water
discharges conditionally allowed by Vista Municipal Code Sections 13. 18. 060.A through F, if the
RWQCB or the Authorized Enforcement Official determines that any of these categories of
otherwise conditionally allowed non- storm water discharges are a source of pollutants to receiving
waters, are a danger to public health or safety, or are causing a public nuisance, such discharges
shall be prohibited from entering the MS4.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.070 BMP Requirements for All Dischargers
A. Best Management Practices. Any person engaged in activities which may result in
discharges to the MS4 shall, to the MEP, undertake all measures to reduce the risk of nonstorm
water discharges and pollutant discharges. The following requirements shall apply:
13. 18 ( 8) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Every person and/ or entity undertaking any activity or use of a premises
that may cause or contribute to storm water pollution or contamination, illicit discharges, or nonstorm
water discharges to the MS4 shall comply with BMP guidelines or pollution control
requirements, as may be established by the Authorized Enforcement Official. Such BMPs include
the minimum BMPs set forth in the Stormwater Standards Manual.
2. An Authorized Enforcement Official may require any business or operation
that is engaged in activities which may result in pollutant discharges to the MS4 to develop and
implement a Water Pollution Control Plan, which must include an employee training program and
the applicable minimum BMPs from the Stormwater Standards Manual.
3. Each discharger that is subject to any NPDES Permit shall comply with all
requirements of all such permits. The discharger must also make reports submitted to the
RWQCB or other permitting agency, including monitoring data, available to the City upon request.
4. Parties undertaking land disturbance activities shall comply with all
applicable requirements of Section 13. 18. 080.
5. Parties undertaking land development and redevelopment activities shall
comply with all applicable requirements of Section 13. 18. 090.
B. Guidance Documents. Any Authorized Enforcement Official under the supervision
of the City Engineer may prepare, disseminate and maintain guidance documents addressing the
use of BMPs for specific activities or facilities, illegal connections, and illegal discharges. These
guidance documents may set out additional compliance alternatives that, in specified
circumstances, can provide the same environmental protection that is afforded by the BMPs
required by this Chapter or specified in the Stormwater Standards Manual.
C. Significant Sources of Pollutants. Where Authorized Enforcement Staff identify a
discharge that is in violation, or is likely to result in a violation, of Vista Municipal Code Section
13. 18. 050. D or 13. 18. 060. G, Authorized Enforcement Staff may order the discharger to install,
implement and maintain additional BMPs. Any such order shall specify a reasonable date by
which those BMPs must be put in place. A failure to install, implement, or maintain additional
BMPs as required by any such order is a violation of this Chapter.
D. Collection and Use of Stormwater. An Authorized Enforcement Official may modify
any requirement imposed by this Chapter to allow the on- site collection and use of stormwater,
or the collection of stormwater for delivery to and use at City-designated sites, provided the
modified requirements are enforceable and provide equivalent environmental protection.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.080 BMP Requirements for Land Disturbance Activity
A. Permit Issuance. No discharger and/ or development project proponent shall
receive any City grading, clearing, building or other land development permit without first meeting
the requirements of this Chapter, Chapter 17. 56, and the Stormwater Standards Manual.
B. Owners and Operators both Responsible and Liable. Persons or entities
performing land disturbance activities ( including, but not limited to, construction activities) in the
City, and the owners of land on which land disturbance activities are performed, are dischargers
for purposes of this Chapter, provided, however, that a local government or public authority is not
a discharger as to activities conducted by others in public rights- of-way.
C. Plan Submittal Requirements. Any Authorized Official under supervision of the City
Engineer may prepare plan submittal requirements for permit applications, consistent with the
Stormwater Standards Manual.
D. Agricultural Grading and Clearing. The BMP requirements imposed by this Section
for land disturbance activities apply to agricultural grading and clearing, whether a City-issued
grading and clearing permit is required for that activity. Tilling or cultivating land exclusively for
13. 18 ( 9) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
the purpose of growing plants or animals is not considered to be grading or clearing, provided all
disturbed material remains on the same site, the tilling or cultivating will not block or divert any
natural drainage way, and the land to be tilled or cultivated has been in agricultural production
within the preceding five years.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.090 BMP Requirements for Development and Redevelopment Projects
A. Application to Development and Redevelopment Projects. No land owner or
development project proponent in the City shall receive any City grading, clearing, building or
other land development permit required for land development activity or redevelopment activity
unless the project meets or will meet the requirements of this Chapter and the applicable
requirements defined in the City' s Stormwater Standards Manual. For Priority Development
Projects, the project' s SWAMP must be approved prior to the issuance of such permits.
B. Owners and Developers Responsible and Liable. Developers, development
project proponents, and land owners for land on which development activities are performed are
dischargers for purposes of this Chapter, provided, however, that a local government or public
authority is not a discharger as to activities conducted by others in public rights- of-way.
C. Post- Construction Best Management Practices Required. Land development and
redevelopment activities with the potential to add pollutants to stormwater or to affect the flow rate
or velocity of stormwater runoff after construction is completed, shall be designed to include and
shall implement post- construction BMPs to ensure that pollutants and runoff from the
development will be reduced to the MEP, will not significantly degrade receiving water quality,
and will not cause or contribute to an exceedance of Water Quality Standards in accordance with
the requirements defined in the City' s Stormwater Standards Manual.
D. Land Development Associated with Agricultural Operations. The requirements
imposed by this Section for land development activities apply to such activities when they are
associated with agricultural operations.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.100 Maintenance Requirements
A. Existing Development. Dischargers shall maintain the designed functionality of the
storm drain system and BMPs they rely upon to achieve and maintain compliance with this
Chapter.
B. Responsibility to Maintain. The owners and occupants of lands on which a storm
drain system and BMPs have been installed to meet the requirements of this Chapter shall ensure
the maintained functionality of those structures, regardless if other persons or entities identified
in 13. 18. 100. 0 fail to do so.
C. Maintenance Obligations Assumed by Contract or Other Agreement. Primary
responsibility to maintain a BMP may be transferred through a contract or other agreement. If that
contract provides that it will be submitted to the City pursuant to this Chapter as part of a
development permit application, and if that contract is so submitted, the person or entity accepting
a maintenance obligation in such a contract or agreement will also be legally obliged to maintain
that BMP pursuant to this Chapter.
D. Obligation to Maintain BMPs not Avoided by Contracts or Other Agreements. For
purposes of City enforcement, no contract or other agreement imposing an obligation to maintain
a BMP can relieve a person or entity of any obligation to maintain a BMP imposed by this Chapter.
13. 18 ( 10) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Disclosure of Maintenance Obligations. Any developer who transfers ownership of
land on which a BMP is located or will be located, or who otherwise transfers ownership of a BMP
or responsibility for the maintenance of a BMP to another person or entity, shall provide clear
written notice of the maintenance obligations associated with that BMP to the new or additional
responsible party prior to that transfer.
F. Maintenance Plans for Land Development Activities. The proponents of any land
development activity or redevelopment activity that requires installation of structural postconstruction
BMPs shall provide to the City for review and approval prior to issuance of permits
for the project a plan for maintenance of all structural post-construction BMPs associated with the
project. The plan shall specify the persons or entities responsible for maintenance activity, the
persons or entities responsible for funding, schedules and procedures for inspection and
maintenance of the BMPs, worker training requirements, and any other activities necessary to
ensure BMP maintenance. The plan shall provide for servicing of all structural post- construction
BMPs at least annually, and for the retention of inspection and maintenance records for at least
three years.
G. Access Requirements. Storm drain system structures shall be provided adequate
access for long- term inspection and maintenance purposes.
H. Assurance of Maintenance for Land Development Projects. The proponents of any
land development activity or redevelopment activity that requires a City permit shall provide to the
City, prior to issuance of permits for the project, proof of a mechanism acceptable to the City
which will ensure ongoing long- term maintenance of all structural post- construction BMPs
associated with the proposed project. The proponents shall be responsible for maintenance of
BMPs unless, and until, an alternative mechanism for ensuring maintenance is accepted by the
City and becomes effective.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.110 Inspection and Sampling
A. Regulatory Inspections and Certification Programs. The Authorized Enforcement
Official may establish inspection or certification programs to evaluate and enforce compliance
with the requirements of this Chapter. Authorized enforcement officials and authorized
enforcement staff may inspect facilities, activities, and properties subject to this Chapter at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner to carry out the purposes of this Chapter. If entry
for a regulatory inspection is refused by the facility owner or operator, or by the occupant of a
residence, an inspection warrant shall be obtained prior to inspection.
B. Inspections of New Construction. When any new storm drain system or BMP is
installed on private property as part of a project that requires a City permit, in order to comply with
this Chapter, the property owner shall grant to the City access permission to enter the property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner to ensure compliance with this Chapter. This
includes the right to enter the property without prior notice for routine inspections, to enter as
needed for additional inspections during construction, to enter for any needed follow- up
inspections, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a nuisance or correction of a violation
of this Chapter.
C. Scope of Inspections. Inspections may include all actions necessary to determine
whether any illegal discharges or illegal connections exist, whether the BMPs installed and
implemented are adequate to comply with this Chapter, whether those BMPs are being properly
maintained, and whether the facility or activity complies with the other requirements of this
Chapter.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002-24, Amended, 11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
13. 18 ( 11) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 13. 18.120 Violations of Chapter
A. This Chapter is violated any time a person violates any provision of this Chapter
or fails to act, as required by this Chapter. For purposes of assessing and determining
administrative penalties, civil penalties, or criminal penalties, a person shall be responsible or
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day on which such a violation occurs and
continues.
B. Failure by a person to take the actions required by an order or directive of an
authorized enforcement official or authorized enforcement staff in the manner and by the time
required by such order or directive shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter apart from
any other violations that may have occurred. Each day ( or part thereof) in excess of the allowed
period for correction shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter.
C. A violation of this Chapter occurs any time a person makes a misrepresentation or
omission of fact in a voluntary disclosure, a submission, a report, or a filing provided to the City
to avoid, delay, or curtail a possible enforcement action or remedial action by the City.
D. Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing a violation of any provision of
this Chapter shall constitute a violation of such provision.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.130 Administrative Enforcement Powers
A. In addition to the other enforcement powers and remedies established by this
Chapter, any authorized enforcement official has the authority to utilize the following
administrative remedies or to issue the following orders to any person responsible, in whole or
part, for any violation of this Chapter:
B. Notice of Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a discharge
has taken place or is likely to take place in violation of this Chapter, the official may issue a notice
of violation and direct that those persons not complying shall take the following actions within the
time periods specified by the authorized enforcement officials:
1. Cease and desist all activities that may cause or contribute to any
discharge or condition violating any provision of this Chapter.
2. Comply with a time schedule for compliance.
3. Take appropriate remedial or preventative action to prevent the violation
from recurring.
4. Submit and implement a plan approved by the enforcement official for the
correction and prevention of the discharge or condition violating any provision of this Chapter.
5. Clean up any release of pollutants causing or resulting from the violation of
any provision of this Chapter.
6. Mitigate any circumstances that may cause or contribute to any discharge
or condition violating any provision of this Chapter.
7. Adopt and implement best management practices and/ or a stormwater
pollution prevention plan approved by the enforcement official.
8. Require a business or organization to establish the elements of an
employee training program as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes of this Chapter where such
a program has been required as part of a stormwater prevention plan or represents a BMP.
9. Assess and charge a person, business, or organization responsible for a
violation the cost of any cleaning or repair of the MS4 system which resulted from an obstruction,
damage or impairment caused by the violation.
13. 18 ( 12) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
10. Assess and charge a person, business, or organization responsible for a
violation any and all costs which the City incurred, including any direct and indirect costs resulting
from the violation.
11. Issue stop work notices or orders for any work under a City permit which is
occurring in a manner to cause or threaten to cause a discharge in violation of this Chapter.
12. Suspend or revoke any permit, license, certificate, or approval issued by
the City for any development, operations, use, or activity if the activities undertaken pursuant to
that permit, license, certificate or approval are occurring in a manner to cause or threaten to cause
a discharge in violation of this Chapter.
C. When, in the opinion of the enforcement official, any discharge from any source to
the stormwater conveyance system causes or threatens to cause a condition that presents an
imminent hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare, or the environment, or a violation of a
NPDES permit, the Authorized Enforcement Official may issue a notice requiring the owner or
occupant of the premises where the discharge is occurring to immediately abate the discharge.
In any case where the discharge is not immediately abated, or for any reason the owner or
occupant of the subject premises does not receive the notice, or the Authorized Enforcement
Official determines that time constraints are such that abatement must occur without providing
the notice, the Authorized Enforcement Official may summarily abate the condition in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista Municipal Code or other applicable law.
D. If any violation of this Chapter constitutes a seasonal and recurrent nuisance, the
Authorized Enforcement Official shall so declare in the notice and order issued pursuant to
subsection B, above. Thereafter, the owner or occupant of the subject premises shall abate such
seasonal and recurrent nuisance every year without the necessity of any further notice and order.
If at any time the nuisance is not abated as required herein, the enforcement official may
summarily abate the condition in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista
Municipal Code or other applicable law.
E. The owner of any premises in the city from which is made a discharge in violation
of this Chapter, and any person making or causing to be made the discharge, if different from the
owner, shall be jointly and severally liable for the costs incurred by the City for any abatement,
clean- up or restoration, including any related inspection and testing costs, arising from the
discharge, and the cost therefor shall be invoiced to the owner of the premises. If the invoice is
not paid within sixty ( 60) days, the Authorized Enforcement Official may commence proceedings
for recovery of in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista Municipal Code or
other applicable law.
F. Administrative Penalties. In addition to any other remedy or penalty set forth in this
Chapter or this Code, administrative penalties may be imposed pursuant to applicable provisions
of Chapter 1. 13 of the Vista Municipal Code against any responsible party, whether owner, lessee,
sublessor, sublessee or occupant of any premises in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter. Imposition, enforcement, collection and administrative review of administrative penalties
imposed shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 1. 13 of the Vista Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.140 Civil Actions
A. In addition to any other remedies provided in this Chapter, any violation of this
Section may be enforced by civil action brought by the City. In any such action, the City may seek,
without limitation, and the court shall grant, as appropriate, any or all of the following remedies:
1. Injunctive relief.
13. 18 ( 13) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation, inspection, or
monitoring survey which led to the establishment of the violation, and for the reasonable costs of
preparing and bringing legal action under this subsection.
3. Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse effects
resulting from the violation.
4. Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality, wildlife,
fish and aquatic life.
5. Payment or reimbursement of any governmental fines or penalties imposed
on the City as a result of the violation.
6. Civil penalties imposed either on a daily basis or a per-gallon basis, but not
both, for any discharge of nonstormwater to the stormwater conveyance system violating any
provision of this Chapter. Civil penalties imposed on a daily basis shall not exceed five thousand
dollars for each day or portion of a day that the discharge occurs, and civil penalties imposed on
a per-gallon basis shall not exceed ten dollars for each gallon of the discharge. The amount of
civil penalties imposed shall be determined by taking into consideration some or all of the following
factors: the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the discharge, whether the discharge is
susceptible to cleanup or abatement, the degree of toxicity of the discharge, and, with respect to
the violator, the ability to pay, the effect on its ability to continue in business, any voluntary cleanup
efforts undertaken, any prior history of violations, the degree of culpability, the economic benefit
or savings, if any, resulting from the violation, and such other matters as justice may require.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.150 Criminal Penalties
A. Any person who knowingly or intentionally violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to
exceed one year, or a fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars for each day such a violation exists,
or both. There is no requirement that administrative enforcement authorities be used before such
actions are filed. A citation and notice to appear as prescribed by Chapter 1. 12 may be issued.
B. Notwithstanding paragraph A, any such violation constituting a misdemeanor
under this Chapter may, in the discretion of the City Attorney or City Prosecutor, be charged and
prosecuted as an infraction.
C. The immunities prescribed in Section 836. 5 of the California Penal Code shall be
applicable to public officers or employees acting in the course and scope of employment pursuant
to this Chapter.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.160 Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
A. Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare and is declared and deemed to be
a public nuisance subject to abatement.
B. A nuisance resulting from violation of any provisions of this Chapter may be
summarily abated by any authorized enforcement official, and/ or through a civil action to abate,
enjoin or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance. Such actions may be undertaken by
or on behalf of the City pursuant to Chapter 8. 36 of the Vista Municipal Code or any other provision
of law.
13. 18 ( 14) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the
property and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon and against the property and such lien shall
continue in existence until the same shall be paid.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.170 Remedies Not Exclusive
Remedies under this Chapter are in addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all
other remedies, civil or criminal. The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.180 Use of Penalties or Assessments
Any monetary penalties or assessments collected by the city pursuant to violations of this
Chapter, shall be used for storm water pollution prevention and program management.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.190 Appeal
If a decision or action of the Authorized Enforcement Official is not subject to an appeal
procedure under any other provision of this Chapter or Code, any person who is affected by the
Authorized Enforcement Official' s decision or action may appeal the decision or action to the City
Manager or designee within ten days following the effective date of the decision or action, by filing
a written appeal with the City Manager or designee. Upon receipt of such appeal, the City
Manager may request a report and recommendation from the authorized enforcement official and
shall set the matter for an informal hearing at the earliest practical date. Not less than seven days
prior to the date of hearing, the City Manager or designee shall provide written notice of the
hearing to the person appealing the decision or action of the enforcement official. At the hearing,
the appellant may be represented by any person of appellant' s choice. The City Manager or
designee shall hear any additional evidence presented by the appellant or the Authorized
Enforcement Official, and may reject, affirm or modify the Authorized Enforcement Official' s
decision. The decision of the City Manager or designee shall be the City' s final administrative
determination of the matter.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 13. 18.200 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Chapter. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter,
and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid
or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this Chapter should be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.
Ord. No. 93- 18, Enacted, 7/ 6/ 93; Ord. No. 2002- 10, Amended, 3/ 29/ 02; Ord. No. 2002- 24, Amended,
11/ 12/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 10, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
13. 18 ( 15) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.01
General Provisions
Sections:
14. 01. 010 Purpose and Intent
14. 01. 020 Authority
14. 01. 030 Definitions
14. 01. 040 Administration; Enforcement
14. 01. 050 Sewer Revenue Fund and Reserve Accounts
14. 01. 060 Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund; Emergency Expansion Reserve
Account
14. 01. 070 Capital Facilities Fund
14. 01. 080 Inspection and Testing
14. 01. 090 Disconnection Authorized
14. 01. 100 Reconnection Permit; Reimbursement of Disconnection Costs
14. 01. 110 Penalties for Violations; Reimbursement of City' s Costs
Section 14.01. 010 Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose and intent of this title to protect the public health, safety and welfare by
providing for the maximum beneficial public use of the City' s sewer system through adequate
regulation of sewer construction, sewer use and wastewater discharge, to provide for equitable
distribution of the City' s costs, and to provide procedures for complying with wastewater
discharge requirements placed upon the City by other regulatory bodies.
Ord. No. 99-20, Enacted, 10/ 12/99; Ord. No. 2003- 17, Repealed, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Added,
4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 020 Authority
The provisions of this title are enacted pursuant to authority under Section 7 of Article XI
of the California Constitution, California Government Code Sections 38900 through 38902
inclusive, Chapter 6 ( commencing with Section 54300) of Part 1, Division 2 of Title 5 of the
California Government Code ( the " Revenue Bond Law of 1941"), Chapter 5 ( commencing with
Section 4950) of Part 3, of Division 5 of the California Health and Safety Code, and other
provisions of California law.
Ord. No. 99-20, Enacted, 10/ 12/99; Ord. No. 2003- 17, Repealed, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Added,
4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 030 Definitions
When used in this title, the following definitions shall have the meanings given by this
section, whether or not these words or phrases are capitalized:
Building" shall mean a structure entirely separated from any other structure by a
space or by walls by which there are no communicating doors or windows or similar openings.
City" shall mean the City of Vista.
City Engineer" means the City Engineer of the City or his authorized representatives.
Department" means the Engineering Department of the City.
14. 01 ( 1) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Equivalent dwelling unit" means the unit of measure which is based on the flow
characteristics of an average single-family residence in terms of sewage quantity and
constituent quality.
Garbage" means the animal and vegetable waste from handling, preparation cooking,
and dispensing of food.
Grease" means any material which is extractable from an acidified sample of a waste
by hexane or other designated solvent and as determined by the appropriate procedure in
standard methods. Grease includes fats and oils.
Industrial waste" means solid, liquid, or gaseous substances discharged or flowing
from an industrial, manufacturing, processing, treating, recovery, or development of natural or
artificial resources of whatever nature.
Industrial wastewater" means all water-carried wastes and wastewater of the
community excluding domestic wastewater and including all wastewater from any industrial
production, manufacturing, processing, commercial, agricultural, or other operation. These may
also include wastes of human origin similar to domestic wastewater.
Lot" means any piece or parcel of land as bounded, defined or shown upon the latest
map, plan or deed recorded in the office of the County Recorder of San Diego.
Owner" includes a holder in fee, life tenant, executor, administrator, trustee, guardian,
or other fiduciary, lessee, or licensee holding under any government lease or license of real
property.
Person" means any person, firm, company, association, corporation, district, the state,
the United States of America, or any department or agency thereof.
Premises" means any lot, piece, or parcel of land, building, or establishment.
Private sewer" refers to a privately owned sewer which is not directly controlled by the
City.
Public sewer" means a publicly owned treatment works ( POTW) which is owned in
this instance by Encina Joint Powers and its member agencies. This definition includes any
sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other
conveyances not connected to the facility providing treatment. Public sewer also includes any
sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the cities of Vista and
Carlsbad, the Vallecitos Water District, the Leucadia Water District, the Buena Sanitation
District, and Encinitas Sanitary District, who are, by contract or agreement with said cities and/ or
districts, users of the Encina Water Pollution Control Facility.
Residential/ Multiple-Family" means every parcel of real property or lot having a
distinct assessor's parcel number on which multiple- dwelling units, excluding duplexes, are
constructed and used for residential purposes. Every mobile home park on which factory
assembled or mobile homes are located and used for residential purposes. Each available
space shall be considered a separate dwelling unit.
Residential/ Single Family" means each parcel of real property or lot having a distinct
assessor's parcel number on which a separate single family dwelling unit or duplex is
constructed and used for residential purposes and each individually owned or controlled
dwelling unit having a distinct assessor's parcel number within a condominium or cooperative
ownership development.
Sewage" means the waterborne wastes derived from ordinary human processes and
of such character as to permit satisfactory disposal, without special treatment, into the public
sewer, a private sewer, or by means of household septic tank systems and individual household
aerobic units.
Sewer lateral" means that portion of a pipe or conduit carrying sanitary sewage and/ or
industrial wastes from a building to the public sewer or a common sewer, including the
connection to the public sewer.
14. 01 ( 2) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Sewer system" means all construction and appurtenant equipment utilized in the
collection, transportation, pumping, treatment, and final disposal of sewage within the city.
Slug" means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial wastes which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24- hour concentration of flows during
normal operation.
Standard methods" means the current edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as published by the American Public Health Association,
and Water Pollution Control Federation.
Suspended solids" means solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are largely removable by laboratory
filtering and as determined by the appropriate procedure in standard methods.
Toxic substances" means any substances whether gaseous, liquid, or solid, which
when discharged to the sewer system in sufficient quantities may tend to interfere with any
sewage treatment process, or to constitute a hazard to human beings or animals, or to inhibit
aquatic life or create a hazard to recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from the
sewage treatment plant.
Wastewater" means any liquid waste of any kind, whether treated or not, and whether
animal, mineral, or vegetable including sewage, agricultural, industrial, and thermal wastes,
which are discharged into or permitted to enter a public sewer.
Ord. No. 99-20, Enacted, 10/ 12/99; Ord. No. 2003- 17, Repealed, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Added,
4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 040 Administration; Enforcement
A. The City Engineer shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
title. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the City Engineer may be delegated by the
City Engineer to persons in the employ of the City.
B. The City Engineer shall make and enforce regulations necessary to the
administration of this title. He may amend such regulations from time to time as conditions
require. These regulations shall be consistent with the general policy established herein by the
City Council.
C. The City Engineer may grant an exception to any requirements of this title if he
finds that literal compliance with such provision is impossible or impracticable because of
peculiar physical conditions of the property caused in no way by the fault of the person
requesting such exception and that the purpose of this title will be accomplished and public
safety secured by an alternative construction or procedure.
D. The Code Enforcement Manager and his designees shall also have the authority
to enforce the provisions of this title.
Ord. No. 99-20, Enacted, 10/ 12/99; Ord. No. 2003- 17, Repealed, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Added,
4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 050 Sewer Revenue Fund and Reserve Accounts
A. A Sewer Revenue Fund of the City is hereby established. The purposes of the
Sewer Revenue Fund are to provide for the operation, maintenance and replacement costs, and
debt service expense and retirement, if any, of the sewer system. All revenues received from
sewer service charges and other revenues of the sewer system not specifically allocated to
other funds of the sewer system, shall be deposited initially to the Sewer Revenue Fund.
B. The Sewer Revenue Fund shall include an Operating Cash Flow Reserve. The
purpose of the Operating Cash Flow Reserve is to maintain and provide liquidity for operations
14. 01 ( 3) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
and maintenance of the sewer system throughout the year. The major portion of revenues for
operating and maintaining the sewer system are received at the end of the first half and midway
through the second half of each fiscal year. For this reason, the City Council intends that the
Operating Cash Flow Reserve be maintained at a funding level of approximately 50 percent of
each annual approved budget for maintenance and operation of the sewer system for each
fiscal year.
C. The Sewer Revenue Fund shall include a Treatment and Discharge Rate
Stabilization Reserve. The purpose of the Treatment and Discharge Rate Stabilization Reserve
is to provide for unexpected treatment and discharge costs imposed upon the sewer system by
the Encina Wastewater Authority (EWA). The City is a member of EWA and all of the
wastewater entering the sewer system is treated and discharged through the EWA treatment
and discharge facilities under permit. The costs of such treatment and discharge are not known
or fixed until after the City' s budget is approved. Therefore, a reserve is needed to meet the
unexpected costs. For this reason, the City Council intends that the Treatment and Discharge
Rate Stabilization Reserve be maintained at a funding level equivalent to 15 percent of the
running average annual cost to the sewer system for treatment and discharge services by EWA
over the preceding five-year period.
D. The Sewer Revenue Fund shall include a Lifeline Allowance Reserve, the
purpose of which is to provide a source of funds for the Lifeline Allowance Rebate Program.
The number of persons and the amount of the Lifeline Allowance Rebates under the program is
uncertain; therefore, the reserve is required to meet the obligations of the program. For this
reason, the City Council intends that the Lifeline Allowance Reserve for the City of Vista shall be
funded, if funded at all, from the City of Vista' s General Fund.
Ord. No. 1999-20, Enacted, 10/ 12/ 99; Ord. No. 2003- 17, Amended, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10,
Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2017- 20, Amended 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.01. 060 Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund and Emergency Capital
Reserve Account
A. The Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund is hereby established. The
purposes of the Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund is to provide for repairs and
replacement of existing capital facilities, equipment, and appurtenances of the sewer system, as
they depreciate, wear out, or breakdown. Such repairs and replacements are essential to
maintaining the sewer system in proper working order and avoiding deterioration of the sewer
system. For this reason, the City Council intends that the Capital Repairs and Replacement
Fund be maintained at a funding level equivalent to the running average of the annual cost of
repairs and replacements required to maintain the sewer system in proper working order for the
preceding five-year period. Transfers to the Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund shall be
authorized from revenues received in the Sewer Revenue Fund, including portions of the sewer
service charges, as directed by the City Council with the approval of the annual budget for the
sewer system. The City Council may transfer such additional funds to the Capital Repairs and
Replacement Fund as it deems prudent or necessary from any available sources in such
amounts as the City Council shall determine.
B. Within the Capital Repairs and Replacement Fund there shall be maintained the
Emergency Capital Replacement Reserve Account. The purpose of the Emergency Capital
Replacement Reserve Account is to provide funding to finance the cost of repairs and
replacements to the existing capital facilities, equipment, and appurtenances of the sewer
system required in any given year in the event of a shortfall or lag in revenues of the system, or
unexpected requirements for repairs or replacements. The City Council intends that the initial
level of this reserve shall be set at $2. 9 million. The City Council may adjust this level from time
to time, as it deems necessary by approval of the annual budget of the sewer system.
14. 01 ( 4) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2008- 7, Amended, 1/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed
and Replaced, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 070 Capital Facilities Fund
There is hereby established the Capital Facilities Fund. All revenues received from
sewer capacity charges shall be deposited to the Capital Facilities Fund and expended on
capital improvements to the sewer system. The City Council may transfer such additional funds
to the Capital Facilities Fund as it deems prudent or necessary from any available sources in
such amounts as the City Council shall determine.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 14/09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.01. 080 Inspection and Testing
A. Subject to the obtaining of prior court approval, if necessary under the law,
inspection and sampling of every facility that is involved directly or indirectly with the discharge
of wastewater to the City' s sewer system may be made by the City Engineer as he or she
deems necessary. These facilities shall include, but not be limited to sewers, wastewater
pumping stations, pollution control plants, all industrial processes, food establishment facilities,
or other facilities which discharge grease and oil at levels which cause blockages to the sewer,
industrial wastewater generation, conveyance and pretreatment facilities, and all similar
wastewater facilities.
B. Inspections may be made to determine that such facilities are maintained and
operate properly and are adequate to meet the provisions of this title.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 06/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 090 Disconnections Authorized
The City Engineer may disconnect from the public sewer any lateral connection which is
constructed or connected without a permit or which is used contrary to the provisions of this
title. The City Engineer shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner or occupant of the
premises affected by any proposed disconnection and may grant a reasonable time to eliminate
the violation.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Enacted, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 100 Reconnection Permit; Reimbursement of Disconnection Costs
Whenever a lateral connection has been disconnected from the public sewer by the City
Engineer as provided in Section 14. 01. 100 for failure to comply with the provisions of this title,
reconnection shall be made only upon issuance of a permit in writing by the City Engineer.
Before such permit is issued, the applicant shall reimburse the City for the cost of the
disconnection made, and the City Engineer may require the installation of a monitoring
manhole.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Enacted, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.01. 110 Penalties for Violations; Reimbursement of City Costs
14. 01 ( 5) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
A. Public nuisance. Discharge of wastewater in any manner in violation of this
ordinance or of any order issued by the City Engineer as authorized by this title, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the City Engineer.
Any person creating such a public nuisance is guilty of a misdemeanor.
B. Injunction. Whenever a discharge of wastewater is in violation of the provisions
of this ordinance, or otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination,
pollution, or nuisance, the City Attorney may cause the City to seek a petition to the Superior
Court for the issuance of a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or
all three, as may be appropriate in restraining the continuance of such discharge.
C. Cost of damage. Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance or who
has a discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage or any other impairment to the
City' s facilities, shall become liable to the City for all expense, loss or damage, including, but not
limited, to investigative expenses, occasioned the City by such violation or discharge.
D. Falsifying of information. Any person who knowingly makes any false statement,
representation, record, report, plan, or other document filed with the City Engineer or who
falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this title, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
E. Termination of service. The City may revoke any permission to discharge
wastewater into the public sewer system or may terminate or cause to be terminated any
wastewater service to any premise if a violation of any provision is found to exist or if a
discharge of wastewater causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination, pollution, or
nuisance. This provision is in addition to other statutes or rules authorizing termination of
service for delinquency in payment. When deemed necessary by the City Engineer for the
preservation of public health or safety or for the protection of public or private property, the City
Engineer may suspend sewer service to any person using the wastewater system in a manner
to endanger the public health and safety, or public or private property. In suspending service,
the City Engineer may sever all pertinent connections to the public sewer. If such
endangerment shall be imminent, then the City Engineer may act immediately to suspend sewer
service without notice or warning to said person.
F. Criminal prosecution. Violation of any provision of this title is a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment not exceeding six months or by fine not exceeding $ 1000, or by
both fine and imprisonment unless the City Attorney authorizes issuance of an infraction citation
or files a complaint charging the offense as an infraction, or the court, with the consent of the
defendant, determines that the offense is an infraction. Each day on which a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
G. Administrative citations. In addition to criminal sanctions and other remedies set
forth in this title, administrative penalties may be imposed pursuant to Section 1. 13.060 of this
code against any person violating any provision of this title. Imposition, enforcement, collection
and administrative review of administrative penalties shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter
1. 13 of this code.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Enacted, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 01 ( 6) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.02
General Sewer Regulations
Sections:
14. 02.010 Title
14. 02.020 Sewer Connection Mandatory; Maintenance and Repair of Sewer Lateral
14. 02.030 Sewer Discharge Permit
14. 02.040 Sewer Capacity Charges
14. 02.050 Sewer Connections to be Separate
14. 02.060 Sewer Connection through Adjoining Property
14. 02.070 Use of Sewer System Required
14. 02.080 Privies Prohibited; Exceptions
14. 02.090 Restrictions Related to Use of Public Sewers
14. 02. 100 Damage to Sewage Works
14. 02. 110 Extension of Sewer Service Outside City Limits
14. 02. 120 Sanitary Sewers in Property to be Annexed; Owners to Provide
14. 02. 130 Private Sewer Pump Systems
Section 14.02.010 Title
This chapter shall be known as the " City of Vista Sewer Regulations Ordinance."
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.020 Sewer Connection Mandatory; Maintenance and Repair of Sewer
Lateral
A. Except as authorized by this title, every lot with sanitary facilities requiring
sewage disposal shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system where such sewer mains are
constructed in the public streets, alleys, or an easement adjoining such lot within 100 feet.
B. All sewer lateral connections and appurtenances thereto, including, but not
limited to, industrial waste pretreatment facilities and interceptors, now existing or hereafter
constructed, shall be maintained by the owner of the property served in a safe and sanitary
condition and all devices or safeguards which are required by this title for the operation thereof
shall be maintained in good working order.
C. All sewer lateral connections from the main sewer to the property line or
easement line shall meet city engineering design standards, unless an alternative design
standard is approved in writing by the City Engineer.
D. Owner or occupant of property connected to the public sewer shall be
responsible for maintaining and repairing any damage or blockage of sewer lateral from the
building to the point where sewer lateral connects to the public sewer main, including the
connection to the public sewer main.
E. In the event a privately-owned sewer lateral is damaged or blocked resulting in
the discharge of sewage or wastewater from the sewage system, property owner or occupant
shall take immediate action to repair the damage or remove the blockage and contain any waste
discharge on the property and clean- up and dispose of the discharge in an appropriate manner.
In the event the property owner or occupant refuses to take immediate action to repair the
damage or remove the blockage after verbal notice from the City Engineer, the City may take
such action as it deems necessary to protect the public from the discharge of sewage or
14. 02 ( l) Vista ( 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
wastewater, including, but not limited to, disconnecting or capping the sewer lateral at the
owner's expense.
F. When it is found necessary to replace any portion of an existing sewer
connection between the public sewer and lot line, all that portion of the existing sewer
connection between these limits shall be replaced or rehabilitated to meet the current
requirements for new sewer lateral connections.
G. In every case where a plumbing outlet or plumbing fixture is installed or located
below the elevation of the rim of the nearest upstream manhole, an approved type of sewer
backflow prevention device shall be installed between the outlet and the public sewer in such a
manner as to prevent sewage from flowing back or backing up into any such outlet or plumbing
fixture. Every such device shall be installed in a box or a manhole of concrete or cast iron, or
other material approved by the City Engineer so that it will be easily accessible at all times. The
device shall be placed only in the drain line serving the fixtures that are located below the
elevation of the above- mentioned and no drainage from fixtures located above this elevation
shall pass through such device.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.030 Sewer Discharge Permit
It is unlawful for any person to place, discharge, or dispose of any material, solid or
liquid, into the sewer system, or any part thereof, without first obtaining a sewer discharge
permit from the City and without having first paid all charges required by this title; and no
substance shall be placed, discharged, or disposed of in the sewer system except substances
of waste materials originating on the premises to which a sewer discharge permit has been
issued.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2015- 22, Amended,
11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.02.040 Sewer Capacity Charges
A. Any sewer capacity charges and fees required by this title shall be paid prior to
issuance of a building permit, or, at the request of the applicant, deferred until all work required
for final inspection has been completed and all department approvals required for final
inspection have been obtained by the applicant. If the applicant chooses to defer the payment
of charges prior to the request for final inspection, then the amount of the charges shall be
based on the charges in effect at the time of the request for final inspection. In the event that
the City fails to collect any or all charges prior to final inspection, such charges shall remain the
obligation of the developer and/ or property owner.
B. Sewer capacity charges ordinarily imposed by this section for the construction of
any residential, commercial or industrial building or facility shall not be imposed when the
construction is a replacement for a building or facility being removed from the same lot or parcel
or land which had an existing sewer connection of an equal or greater number of EDUs.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2016- 11, Amended,
8/ 23/ 16)
Section 14.02.050 Sewer Connections to be Separate
Every building or other structure situated within the city shall be separately and
independently connected with a lateral sewer connection with the following exceptions:
A. Where more than one building or other structure is situated upon the same lot, in
which case all such buildings and structures may, by special permit authorized by the City
14. 02 ( 2) Vista ( 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Engineer be joined in use of one sewer lateral connection; provided, however, that all such
buildings and structures are owned by the same person.
B. Where, in the opinion of the City Engineer, it is impossible or impractical to
connect a building on a single lot to the main public sewer except in conjunction with the
connection of a building or buildings on other lots, a joint connection may be allowed, provided
that the connection conforms in all respects to the provisions of this title and a drawn plan of the
joint connection be first submitted to and approved by the City Engineer. A permit for each
individual lot shall be required.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.060 Connection through Adjoining Property
A. No sewer lateral connection from any building or other structure shall be made to
any public sewer, if such connection or any portion thereof be in, under, across, or upon any lot
other than the lot on which said building or structure is located.
B. If a lot or parcel of land requiring a sewer connection is so situated that access to
the public sewer is not possible except across some other lot or parcel of land, a sewer
connection may be placed in a recorded easement which includes the right- of-way and
maintains such connection and is appurtenant to the lot or parcel of and to be served by such
sewer connection. No sewer lateral may cross more than one adjoining lot or parcel.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.070 Use of Sewer System Required
Except as provided in this title, all human waste or wastewater for the use of human
sanitation shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.080 Privies Prohibited; Exception
It is declared to be public nuisance and it is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain,
or suffer or permit to be kept or maintained, at or upon any premises in the city, owned,
occupied or controlled by him or it, any privy or dry closet for the reception of human excrement
or fecal matter. Approved type chemical portable toilets for use during construction are
excepted. Location of chemical toilets must be approved by the City.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02.090 Restrictions Relating to Use of Public Sewers
A. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, unpolluted industrial process water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or
any waters from an uncontaminated cooling system, swimming pool, decorative fountain or
pond, into any public sewer or any private sewer which is connected to the public sewer without
written permission in conformance with adopted regulations.
B. No person shall open, enter, obstruct, uncover, or tamper with any portion of the
public sewer, or connect to it, or dispose anything into any sewer and/ or sewer manhole without
the written permission of the City Engineer.
C. No person or party shall remove or demolish any building or structures with
plumbing fixtures connected directly or indirectly to the public sewer without first notifying the
City Engineer of such intention. All opening in or leading to the public sewer line or lines caused
14. 02 ( 3) Vista ( 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
by such work shall be sealed watertight and inspected by the City Engineer before being
backfilled.
D. No person shall fill or backfill over, or cause to cover, or obstruct access to any
sewer manhole.
E. No person shall erect any improvements, structures, or buildings over public
sewers or sewer easements without the written permission of the City Engineer.
F. No person shall discharge of industrial waste without a current Industrial
Wastewater Permit from the Encina Wastewater Authority as described in Chapter 14. 10.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2015- 22, Amended,
11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.02. 100 Damage to Sewage Works
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the
municipal sewage works. Any person who willfully or negligently damages any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the municipal sewage works is liable for the cost of
repair, including the cost of replacement thereof.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02. 110 Extension of Sewer Service Outside City Limits
Unless determined by the City Council to be necessary or beneficial for the
advancement and protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the City and its
residents; and consistent with the applicable policies of the general plan and state law, sewer
services shall not be extended to any dwelling unit or property located outside the corporate
boundaries of the city.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02. 120 Sanitary Sewers in Property to be Annexed; Owners to Provide
At the option of the City, before any ordinance is finally adopted annexing any real
property to the city, the owners or owner of such real property shall, at their own expense,
provide for the installation of sanitary sewer mains, lateral connections, and appurtenances with
the plans and specifications therefore, adopted by the City, and all conditions for any ordinance
regulating the same. When installed, only such sewer mains shall automatically, upon the
completion of such installation, become the property of and shall be owned by the City, and the
same shall be deemed dedicated to the public for the purpose of serving the real property with
sanitary sewer facilities. All sewer laterals and their connections and appurtenances shall be
owned and maintained by the property owner. For purpose of this section, " completion of such
installation" shall include construction of sanitary sewer facilities in accordance with approved
plans and satisfactory completion of all testing and inspections as the City Engineer may
require.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.02. 130 Private Sewer Pump Systems
A. Except as provided in Subsection B, private sewer laterals shall be designed to
flow by gravity to the public sewer main.
B. When the City Engineer determines that it is impracticable or infeasible to
construct a sewer lateral to the public sewer main to allow for wastewater disposal by gravity
14. 02 ( 4) Vista ( 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
flow, the City Engineer may allow the property owner to install a private sewer pump system. In
making his determination, the City Engineer shall consider the following conditions:
1. The property is located in a portion of a drainage basin tributary to an
area currently not served by gravity sewer.
2. That the private sewer pump is necessary to provide sewer service and
determined to be in the public interest to provide sewer service to the parcel.
3. That the private sewer pump is to serve only one residence.
4. That the property owner has paid sewer capacity charges shall pay sewer
service charges and permit fees to the City.
5. That the private sewer pump be a private system to be located on private
property and that the sewer lateral within the public right of way gravity flow to the public main.
6. That the private sewer pump installation be in conformance with the
California Plumbing Code, as adopted by the City, and that a plumbing permit be obtained prior
to installation.
7. That the property owner shall grant to the City any on- site sewer
easement, if necessary, for the future extension of the public sewer.
8. That the property owner enters into a private sewer pump agreement to
be recorded with the property.
9. That the property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
private sewer pump.
10. That the property owner agrees, at his sole cost, that within 90 days after
receipt of notice that gravity sewer becomes available within 300 feet of the property boundary,
to connect to the public sewer at the written direction of the City Engineer, as follows:
The property owner, shall discontinue the use of the private sewer pump
and shall connect to gravity sewer and shall construct the mainline sewer and lateral to a point
on the property as determined by the City Engineer and shall be responsible for all costs,
including offsite easements, engineering fees, permits, inspections and other costs related to
the physical construction of the sewer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2015- 22, Amended,
11/ 10/ 15)
14. 02 ( 5) Vista ( 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.04
Municipal Sewer Service Charges and Rates
Sections:
14. 04.010 Sewer Service Charge; Uses
14. 04.020 Adoption of Variable Rates or Fixed Charges
14. 04.030 Payment Due Date; Delinquency
14. 04.040 Method of Collection
14. 04.050 Service Charges Constitute a Lien on Property
14. 04.060 Adjustments and Proration
14. 04.070 Penalties and Interest on Delinquent Payments
14. 04.080 Lifeline Allowance Rebate Program
Section 14.04.010 Sewer Service Charge; Uses
There is hereby levied upon every parcel of real property having a connection to the
Municipal Sewer System of the City of Vista, in addition to any and all other charges imposed
under this code, a sewer service charge. Revenues derived from the sewer service charges
received and collected by the City of Vista may be used for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, operation, construction or reconstruction, including debt service payments, and
the enforcement of regulations, of any sanitation, storm drainage, or sewerage system of the
City of Vista.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.020 Adoption of Variable Rates or Fixed Charges
The City Council shall, from time to time upon adoption of an ordinance approved by
two- thirds of the members of the City Council, establish rates and/ or fixed fees for the sewer
service charge on each parcel.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.030 Payment Due Date; Delinquency
The sewer service charge is payable in advance for each fiscal year, or portion thereof,
for which services are provided. After the initial connection to the municipal sewer system, all
subsequent payments are due and payable by July 1 of each fiscal year, or portion thereof, in
which the service is provided. Sewer service charges not paid by the due date shall be deemed
delinquent.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.040 Method of Collection
In accordance with the Section 5473 and 5473a of the California Health and Safety
Code, the City Council by adoption of an ordinance or resolution approved by two-thirds of its
members may provide that delinquent sewer service charges or all or a portion of the sewer
service charges imposed under this chapter, shall be collected on the property tax roll, in the
same manner, by the same persons, and at the same time as, together with and not separately
from, the general taxes. Alternatively, the City Council may, by adoption of a resolution
approved by a majority of its members, provide for collection of all or a portion of the sewer
14. 04 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
service charges imposed under this chapter by any method authorized by state law, including by
direct payment or billing or by collection along with the rates for any other utility service
furnished by a publicly or privately owned public utility, with the written consent and agreement
of that public utility.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.050 Service Charges Constitute a Lien on Property
Except as provided in Section 5473.8 of the California Health and Safety Code, and
pursuant to Section 5473. 5 of the California Health and Safety Code, the amount of the service
charge imposed on each parcel of property by this chapter shall constitute a lien on such parcel,
as of noon on the first Monday in March immediately preceding the date of the levy.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.060 Adjustments and Proration
A. Any person who believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds based upon
available facts and information that the sewer service charge imposed upon his or her property
is unfair, incorrect, or improperly charged may file a request for review and adjustment of the
service. All requests for review and adjustment shall be filed in writing and presented to the City
Engineer or designee within thirty days from the date of receipt of the initial sewer service
charge notice. Alternatively, a request may be made within thirty days from receipt of the
property tax bill. The written request shall include all of the following information.
1. A description of the property or premises on which the service charge is
imposed, including the street address;
2. The name and mailing address of each owner or owners of the property
or premises for which a review and adjustment is requested;
3. A statement of the reason or basis for the request for adjustment; and
4. A description of all material facts supporting the request for adjustment.
B. Within thirty days of receiving a complete written request for adjustment, the City
Engineer or designee, after conducting such investigations and inquiries as he or she deems
necessary, shall make written findings and determine whether or not the charges imposed result
in an unfair or unreasonable portion of the service charge. The determination and findings of
the City Engineer or designee shall be final and binding upon the City. Notice of such findings
and determination shall be provided to the person making the written request. Thereafter, the
person who has raised the dispute may proceed with a legal action challenging the decision of
the City in accordance with the provisions of Article 2, Chapter 5, Part 9, of Division 1 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.
C. The amount of the sewer service charges owing in any given fiscal year shall be
prorated for the initial fiscal year to commence from the date the sewer permit is finalized by the
City Inspector or in the case where someone is illegally connected to the public sewer, it shall
be presumed absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, that the illegal connection
was made 12 months prior. Such prorated service charges shall be collected at the time the
Waste Discharge Permit is issued.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.070 Penalties and Interest on Delinquent Payments
A. A penalty of ten percent shall be added to the sewer service charge imposed
upon any parcel of real property or lot for non- payment of the service charge when due except
that in the event that the sewer service charge for any parcel or lot is ordered to be collected
14. 04 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
along with the general property taxes, pursuant to Section 14. 04. 040 above, for the same fiscal
year in which the sewer service charge is to be paid, such penalty shall not be imposed.
B. In addition to the penalty imposed under Subdivision A above, interest shall be
added to any portion of a sewer service charge not paid and delinquent, including the penalty
portion. Such interest shall be calculated and applied at the rate of one and one- half percent
per month of the total amount remaining unpaid and delinquent. Each month' s interest shall be
added to the total delinquent amount for the following month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event that the sewer service charge for any parcel or lot is ordered to be collected along with
the general property taxes, pursuant to Section 14. 04.040 above, for the same fiscal year in
which the sewer service charge is to be paid, such interest shall not be added or accrued.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.04.080 Lifeline Allowance Rebate Program
There is hereby established a Lifeline Allowance Rebate Program. The purpose of this
Program is to provide financial relief for any eligible low income person who has paid the annual
sewer service charge. The program shall become effective upon adoption of a resolution of the
City Council approving funding for the program, approved by a majority of its members and
which may be amended from time to time, establishing eligibility standards and criteria, and
fixing the amount of the low income allowance rebate. City Council may provide funding from
the City' s General Fund and assign appropriate accounts with the adoption of each annual
budget.
Ord. No. 2003- 17, Enacted, 6/ 24/ 03; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 04 ( 3) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.06
Sewer Capacity Charge
Sections:
14. 06.010 Establishment of Sewer Capacity Charge
14. 06.020 Rates for Sewer Capacity Charge; Adjustment and Review
14. 06.030 Initial Sewer Capacity Charge
14. 06.040 Capacity Rental Charge
14. 06.050 Adjustment of Capacity Rental Charge
14. 06.060 Amount of Capacity Rental Charge and Purchase of Additional Sewer
Capacity
14. 06.070 Waiver of Capacity Rental Charge
14. 06.080 Reuse of Old Wastewater Permit
14. 06.090 Election to Have Capacity Rental Charge Collected with Taxes
14. 06. 100 Collection of Capacity Rental Charges with Taxes
14. 06. 110 Equivalent Dwelling Units
14. 06. 120 Residential Equivalent Dwelling Units Sewer Capacity
14. 06. 130 All Other Users of EDUs
Section 14.06.010 Establishment of Sewer Capacity Charge
A. A sewer capacity charge is hereby established and imposed upon the owner or
owners of each parcel or property for the privilege of connecting to the public sewerage system
of the City of Vista. The sewer capacity charge shall be based on the number of EDUs
projected to be contributed to the sewer system. The number of EDUs shall be determined in
accordance with this Chapter. The sewer capacity charge shall be paid immediately prior to the
issuance of a sewer discharge permit and related building permit. If the proposed sewer
connection cannot be made, the sewer capacity charge may be refunded when approved by the
City Engineer. Neither the payment of sewer capacity charges or excess EDUs shall be
refunded if the number of EDUs used decreases nor shall EDUs be transferable between
properties. The sewer capacity charge paid by an owner or owners shall remain on City
records.
B. Revenues derived from sewer capacity charge shall be deposited into the Capital
Facilities Fund and used to pay those costs properly chargeable to the fund pursuant to Section
14. 01. 070 or otherwise authorized by law.
Ord. No. 2004- 15, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.06.020 Rates for Sewer Capacity Charge; Adjustment and Review
A. The City Council shall establish the amount of the sewer capacity charge
imposed under Section 14. 06.010 by ordinance or resolution. The sewer capacity charge shall
be automatically adjusted on an annual basis beginning on the first day of July of each fiscal
year by the percentage increase, if any, in the March Engineering News Record Los Angeles
Construction Cost Index.
B. The City Manager shall periodically, not less than every three years, but not more
than every five years, review the sewer capacity charges to determine whether the current fees
need to be recalculated based on factors such as new or deleted sewer system facilities,
changes in the costs indices and depreciation, and the number of customers as determined by
14. 06 (l) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
the number of equivalent meters. If the City Manager determines that, there has been a
significant change in the factors that are used to calculate the capacity charges, which in turn
requires a revision of the charges, the City Manager shall recommend to the City Council a
revision to the sewer capacity charges.
Ord. No. 2004- 15, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.06.030 Initial Sewer Capacity Charge
Ord. No. 2004- 15, Enacted, 12/ 14/ 04; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22; Repealed, 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.06.040 Capacity Rental Charge
A. In addition to the sewer capacity charge and to the sewer service charge, a
capacity rental charge may be charged to any user whose water use records show that the user
is discharging in excess of purchased sewer capacity. A capacity rental charge will be based on
the number of EDUs of capacity being used in excess of paid sewer capacity charge and are
intended to cover the cost of capital facilities for excess usage.
B. Users with outdoor irrigation meters. For any user who has an outdoor irrigation
meter, the highest bi- monthly water use period on the interior building meter will be converted to
a daily water use and divided by 200 gallons per day. This number will serve as the number of
EDUs used during the fiscal year and will be compared to the purchased sewer capacity in
terms of EDUs to determine if the capacity rental charge will be applied.
C. Users without outdoor irrigation meter. For any user who does not have an
outdoor irrigation water meter, the lowest bi- monthly water use period, excluding zeros, will be
converted to a daily water use and be divided by 200 gallons per day. This number will serve as
the number of EDUs used during the fiscal year and will be compared to the purchased sewer
capacity in terms of EDUs to determine if the capacity rental charge will be applied.
Ord. No. 95- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2017-
20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06.050 Adjustment of Capacity Rental Charge
A. Any person who believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds based upon
available facts and information that the capacity rental charge imposed upon his or her property
is unfair, incorrect, or improperly charged may file a request for review and adjustment of the
capacity rental charge. All requests for review and adjustment shall be filed in writing and
presented to the City Engineer or designee within 35 days from the date of the initial sewer
service charge notice. Alternatively, a request may be made within 35 days from the date of the
mailing of the property tax bill due in December. The written request shall include all of the
following information:
1. A description of the property or premises on which the service charge is
imposed, including the street address.
2. The name and mailing address of each owner or owners of the property
or premises for which a review and adjustment is requested.
3. A statement of the reason or basis for the request for adjustment.
4. A description of all material facts supporting the request for adjustment.
B. Within 30 days of receiving a complete written request for adjustment, the City
Engineer or designee, after conducting such investigations and inquiries as he or she deems
necessary, shall make written findings and determine whether or not the capacity rental charge
imposed results in an unfair or unreasonable charge.
14. 06 (2) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Ord. No. 1997- 1, Enacted, 1/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2017-20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17; Ord. No. 2017- 20, Amended,
11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06.060 Amount of Capacity Rental Charge and Purchase of Additional
Sewer Capacity
A. The amount of the capacity rental charge shall be established by City Council
with the Sewer Service Charges. This amount will be collected yearly along with the Sewer
Service Charges. The capacity rental charge shall be based on the previous calendar year's
water use as an estimate of sewage generation and shall be calculated each year. Payment of
the capacity rental charge will not change the number of EDUs assigned to a parcel.
B. The property owner may elect to purchase additional sewage capacity to avoid
all or part of the capacity rental charge. Purchase of additional capacity must be made no later
than May 1St of the subsequent year, otherwise capacity rental charges will be placed upon the
property tax roll.
Additional sewer capacity may be purchased in installments according to the
following schedule:
1. From 1. 0 EDUs to 5. 0 EDUs, payment may be in three annual payments.
2. From 5. 01 EDUs to 10. 0 EDUs, payment may be in five annual payments.
3. Over 10.0 EDUs may be purchased in eight annual payments.
If payments are made in installments, the property owner shall sign an
application to purchase sewer capacity in installments, which application shall include
authorization for the City to collect installments on the tax rolls as part of the annual sewer
service charge if not paid along with the annual tax bill. The City Manager or his or her
designee shall be authorized to grant said application. A Notice of Charge on Real Property for
Additional Sewer Capacity and Tax Lien in a form acceptable to the City Attorney shall be
recorded on the property at the Office of the County Clerk. Simple interest shall accrue on the
unpaid balance at a per annum rate to be set upon the date of approval of the application by the
City Manager at a rate equivalent to the yield of a United States Treasury Note for an equivalent
time period. The cost per EDU for additional capacity shall be the amount of the sewage
capacity charge at the time the additional capacity is purchased. An installment shall become
due on May 1 of each year.
Upon payment of the first installment, the property owner shall be given credit for
use of the total amount of sewer capacity purchased in installments for the purpose of
calculating excess usage. However, if the installment payments become delinquent, and a lien
on the property for the delinquent payments does not attach for any reason, credit for the
remaining sewer capacity purchased in installments shall no longer be given to the property
owner, including, but not limited to, bona fide purchasers for value.
Ord. No. 1995-7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 1997- 1, Amended, 1/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended &
Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06.070 Waiver of Capacity Rental Charge
Upon application of a property owner, the City Engineer may waive all or part of a
capacity rental charge if he finds that the excessive usage was the result of a temporary
condition that has been eliminated or reduced. The property owner must apply for a waiver no
later than May 1 following the calendar year in which the excessive usage occurred. The
application shall include pertinent information such as water bills, repair receipts and a
description of the condition that caused the excessive sewer usage.
14. 06 (3) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Ord. No. 1997- 1, Enacted, 1/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2017-20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06.080 Reuse of Old Wastewater Permits
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Repealed, 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 14.06.090 Election to Have Capacity Rental Charge Collected with Taxes
The City Council, pursuant to Section 5473 of the California Health and Safety Code,
hereby elects to have the capacity rental charges that are imposed by this chapter and become
due on July 1 of each year, collected on the tax roll in the same manner, by the same persons,
and at the same time as, and together with and not separately from the general taxes of the
City. The City Engineer shall prepare the report required by California Health and Safety Code
Section 5473, et seq.
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2017-20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06. 100 Collection of Capacity Rental Charges with Taxes
Any sewer capacity rental charges assessed pursuant to this chapter and not paid as
provided in this chapter shall be made a lien against the property, as provided in California
Health and Safety Code Section 5470 et seq.
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No 2017-
20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06. 110 Equivalent Dwelling Units ( EDUs)
Residential EDUs are assigned for the purpose of both sewer capacity charges and
yearly sewer service charges. For all other classes of users, separate methods are described
for determination of EDUs for the purpose of capacity fees and determination of EDUs for the
purpose of sewer service and capacity rental charges.
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
Section 14.06. 120 Residential Equivalent Dwelling Units Sewer Capacity
A. Types of Sewer Users Minimum EDUs
1. Residential/ Single Family 1. 0
2. Residential/ Multi- Family
a. Each unit: 0. 7
b. Each office, service building or other accessory unit
in which waste discharge is approximately that of a
dwelling unit. 1. 0
4. Churches, theaters and auditoriums:
a. Churches:
1) Fixed seating - for each 100 units of seating
or fraction thereof in the sanctuary only. 1. 0
2) Temporary seating  for each individual
seat using the unconcentrated capacity
formula allowed under the most current
14. 06 (4) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
edition of the California Fire Code in the
sanctuary only. 01
5. Schools:
a. Elementary schools for each 60 pupils or fraction
thereof. 1. 0
b. Junior high or middle schools for each 60 pupils
or fraction thereof. 1. 0
C. High schools for each 30 pupils or fraction thereof. 1. 0
6. Self Service Laundries:
Except for those laundries which are for the exclusive use of
residents of an apartment complex, mobile home park, or
condominium complex. For each washing machine:
a. Front load washer: 75
b. Top load washer: 1. 0
7. Restaurants:
a. 0 20 seats 2. 0
b. Each additional unit of 10 seats or fraction thereof. 1. 0
C. Restaurants using disposal plates and utensils ( no
automatic dishwasher):
1) 0- 20 seats. 1. 0
2) For each additional unit of 15 seats, or fraction
thereof. 1. 0
8. Car Washes:
a. Full service ( using recycled water) 30. 0
b. Drive through car wash 10. 0
C. Self-service car wash - per bay 15. 0
d. City Manager, or his or her designee, may adjust upward
minimum EDUs based on car wash equipment
manufacture' s specifications for peak net discharge rate.
9. Adult Living Facility:
a. Facility with a common kitchen - per bed. 0.30
b. Facility with a kitchen or kitchenette in each room
per bed 0.70
10. Ranch - Residential Multi- Family Facility:
a. Occupancy for each 100 residents, or fraction thereof 35. 0
b. Common kitchen and dining, with occupancy for each
100 seats 10. 0
C. With common area laundry facilities with two or more
washing machines:
1) Front load washing machines - per machine 0.75
2) Top load washing machines  per machine 1. 0
11. Hotels and Motels
a. Each unit 0.4
12. All other commercial and industrial businesses sewer capacity
charges shall be established by City Council policy and as may be
amended from time to time.
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2016-8, Amended, 6/ 24/ 16; Ord. No. 2017-20, Amended & Renumbered, 11/ 14/ 17)
14. 06 (5) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14.06. 130 All Other User EDUs
For those commercial or industrial users who do not fall under any of the categories
listed in Section 14. 06. 120 above, the following standards shall apply:
A. New users ( parcels without existing Sewer Discharge Permits). For all new
users, not listed in Section 14. 06. 120 sewer capacity charges will be assessed at the rate of
four EDUs for each gross acre*. The user may elect to purchase more EDUs in order to reduce
capacity rental charges. The following exceptions to the four EDUs per gross acre rule apply
and may be used to reduce the number of EDUs required for a parcel. All parcels must
maintain a minimum capacity of one EDU.
1. If the building coverage is less than 20 percent of the lot, the number of
EDUs shall be one EDU per 3, 300 gross square feet of building area.
2. For projects that are phased, the payment of EDUs can be phased in
accordance with the construction based on the percentage of building square footage in each
phase.
B. Existing users ( users with existing Sewer Discharge Permits).
1. Existing users with a Sewer Discharge Permit who have paid sewer
capacity charges and own EDUs for a minimum of four EDUs per gross acre will not be required
to pay additional EDUs for interior improvements or exterior building expansions.
2. For buildings that have paid less than four EDUs per gross acre the
following rules will apply:
a. For interior remodels, no additional EDUs will be assessed.
b. For exterior building remodels, additional EDUs will be assessed
based on one EDU, or fraction thereof, per each 3,300 gross square feet up to a maximum of
four EDUs per gross acre.
Definition  gross acre shall be the total number of acres contained within the entire
parcel as measured from the street centerline including easements but excluding dedicated
open space.)
Ord. No. 1995- 7, Enacted, 6/ 27/ 95; Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Renumbered, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No.
2015-22, Amended, 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. 2017-20, Amended, 11/ 14/ 17)
14. 06 (6) Vista 01/ 14/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.08
Extension and Enlargement of Sewer Mains
Sections:
14. 08.010 Application for Extension
14. 08.020 Cost Estimate
14. 08.030 Construction Options
14. 08.040 Design and Construction of Sewer Main
14. 08.050 Reimbursement for Constructing Excess Sewer Facilities
Section 14.08.010 Application for Extension
Any person, other than a subdivider, who desires to extend a sewer main to his property
and construct sewer lateral( s) to the sewerage system, shall file an application for sewer
connection( s) with the City Engineer in which he shall describe the area to be served, the
approximate length of the proposed extension and any other information as required by the City
Engineer or as required by the most current sewer master plan or capital improvement projects
with the City of Vista Sewer Design Manual.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.08.020 Cost Estimate
The applicant shall have a cost estimate for the proposed extension which shall be
submitted by the applicant to the City Engineer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.08.030 Construction Options
The City Engineer shall select one of the following options:
A. Deposit with the City Engineer an amount equal to 130% of the amount
estimated by the City Engineer and request the City to proceed with the construction of the
requested extension, and the City shall refund to the applicant any money in excess of the cost
of the sewer main extension 60 days after a Notice of Completion has been filed, provided no
claims are made by any subcontractor on the sewer extension project.
B. The applicant shall make or cause such sewer extension to be made by a
competent, qualified and properly licensed contactor; but, all such work shall be done under the
supervision of the City Engineer, and the applicant shall pay to the City all reasonable costs of
inspection which shall be determined by the City Engineer.
C. The applicant shall also post a faithful performance bond with the City to
guarantee the completion of the work and pay such damages that may be caused to the public
right- of-way as a result of such construction.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14.08.040 Design and Construction of Sewer Mains
All sewer mains shall be designed and constructed to public standards according to the
most current City of Vista Sewer Design Manual, unless excepted by the City Engineer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 08 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14.08.050 Reimbursement for Construction of Excess Sewer Facilities
Any person constructing a sewer main or appurtenant facilities to a larger capacity than
required by the City standards, at the request or requirement of the City, may apply for
reimbursement in the same manner as provided in Vista Municipal Code Section 16. 56. 150.
The City Engineer shall make maps, calculations, reports, and recommendations to the City
Council in the same manner provided in Section 16. 56. 150.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 08 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14. 10
Discharge of Industrial Wastes
Sections:
14. 10. 010 Establishment of Rules and Regulations
14. 10. 020 Permit Required
14. 10. 030 Issuance of Permit
14. 10. 040 Violation - Disconnection of Facilities; Reconnection Charge
14. 10. 050 Notice of Intention to Disconnect Premises
Section 14. 10.010 Establishment of Rules and Regulations
The City Engineer is authorized and empowered to adopt such rules and regulations as
may be deemed reasonably necessary to protect the sewer system and the joint sewer system,
to control and regulate the proper use thereof, and to provide for the issuance of permits;
provided, however, that the terms and provisions of such rules and regulations shall be
promulgated in a manner best directed to result in the uniform control and use of the sewer
system, and provided further that such rules and regulations shall not become effective until
approved by the City Council, and a copy of such rules and regulations is filed with the City
Clerk.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 10.020 Permit Required
No person shall connect to or otherwise discharge, or caused to be discharged into the
sewer system, any industrial waste unless such person has theretofore filed with the sewer
sanitation department of the City a copy of an industrial waste water permit issued by the
Encina Wastewater Authority. Provided, however, no such permit shall be required of any
person who intends to discharge industrial waste water into the sewer system and an authorized
employee of Encina has determined in writing that no industrial waste water permit is
necessary. A copy of such a determination shall be provided to the City and filed.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 10.030 Issuance of Permit
Industrial waste water permits shall be issued by Encina Water Pollution Control Facility
according to the Encina Water Pollution Control Facility regulations.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 10.040 Violation - Disconnection of Facilities; Reconnection charge
In the event an industrial waste water permit issued by Encina is suspended or revoked
for violation of any applicable state, federal, local law, this article, or of any of the adopted rules
and regulations, the City Engineer may disconnect from the public sewer any connection sewer,
main line sewer or other facility which is constructed, connected, or used without a permit.
When a premise has been disconnected, it shall not be reconnected until the violation for which
it was disconnected has ceased or has been remedied and a reasonable charge for such
disconnection and reconnection, as established by the City Engineer, has been paid.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 10 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14. 10.050 Notice of Intention to Disconnect Premises
The City Engineer shall give not less than five days notice of intention to disconnect the
premises where no permit has been issued by Encina, or where a permit has been issued,
following Encina' s final decision to suspend or revoke the permit. Such notice shall be in writing
along with a copy of Encina' s decision to suspend or revoke the industrial waste water permit.
Provided, however, that if the City Engineer determines that the danger is imminent and such
action is necessary for the immediate protection of the health, safety or welfare of persons or
property or for the protection of the sewer system or joint sewer system, any premise
discharging industrial waste water may be disconnected and service terminated concurrently
with the giving of such notice. Notice shall be given to the occupant of the premises, if any, and
to the record owner of the property as shown upon the last equalized assessment roll of the
county by United States mail, registered or certified, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
by personal service, or by posting such notice on the premises along with mailing a copy to the
property owners by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid to the last equalized
assessment roll of the county.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 10 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.12
Control and Regulation of Fats, Oils, and Grease
Sections:
14. 12. 010 Purpose and Intent
14. 12. 020 Definitions
14. 12. 030 FOG Discharge Requirements
14. 12. 040 Enforcement of Chapter
14. 12. 050 Prohibitions
14. 12. 060 Pretreatment Requirements
14. 12. 070 Sewer System Overflows and Cleanup
14. 12. 080 Nuisance Declared
14. 12. 090 Grease Control Device Design Requirements
14. 12. 100 Grease Control Device Maintenance Requirements
14. 12. 110 Best Management Practices
14. 12. 120 Monitoring, Reporting, and Record Keeping Requirements
14. 12. 130 Inspection and Sampling Conditions
14. 12. 140 Right of Inspection
14. 12. 150 Notification of Spill
14. 12. 160 Penalty Imposed on District by Regulatory Agencies
14. 12. 170 Penalties for Violation, Enforcement
Section 14. 12.010 Purpose and Intent
A. It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish regulations for the disposal
of fats, oils, grease and other insoluble waste discharges from food service establishments
within the city.
B. The City Council, in enacting this ordinance, intends to provide for the maximum
beneficial public use of the City' s sewer system, to prevent blockages of that system and the
accidental discharge of wastewater into the storm drain system, to ensure the cost of
maintaining the City' s sewer system is equitably distributed among users, to clarify grease
disposal requirements for existing food service establishments, and to promote public health
and safety.
C. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this
chapter and the provisions of the California Plumbing Code as adopted by Chapter 16. 32 of the
Vista Development Code, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.020 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following terms as defined:
Administrative Authority" shall mean the City Engineer or any other official( s) as
designated by the City Manager.
Authorized Inspector" shall mean an inspector so designated by the administrative
authority.
Best Management Practices" shall mean the schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or reduce the
introduction of fats, oils, and grease to the sewer facilities.
14. 12 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Discharger" shall mean any person who discharges or causes a discharge of
wastewater directly or indirectly to a public sewer. Discharger shall mean the same as user.
Establishment" shall mean commercial or industrial establishments, including, but not
limited to, retail food service establishments that may discharge fats, oil and grease.
FOG" shall mean fats, oils, and grease. Any substance such as a vegetable or animal
product that it is used in, or is a by product of, the cooking or food preparation process, and that
turns or may turn viscous or solidifies with a change in temperature or other condition is
included in this definition.
Food Grinder" shall mean any device installed for the purpose of grinding food waste
or food preparation by- products and disposing it in the public sewer system. Also means a
garbage disposal.
Food Service Establishment" ( FSE) shall mean facilities defined in the California
Retail Food Code Section 113789 or which has any process or device that uses or produces
FOG, or grease vapors, steam, fumes, smoke or odors that are required to be removed by
mechanical ventilation, as defined in the California Retail Food Code Section 114149. 1. A
limited food preparation establishment is not considered a Food Service Establishment or are
establishments that generate FOG when engaged only in reheating, hot holding, or assembly of
ready to eat food products and as a result there is a negligible amount of FOG. A limited food
preparation establishment does not include any operation that changes the form, flavor, or
consistency of food as defined by the California Retail Food Code Section 113791. Domestic
homes are not considered food service establishments under this definition.
Grease Control Device" shall mean any grease interceptor, grease trap or other
approved mechanism, device or process, which attaches to, or is applied to, wastewater
plumbing fixtures and lines, the purpose of which is to trap or collect or treat FOG prior to it
being discharged into the sewer system.
Gravity Grease Interceptor" shall mean a multi- compartment device that is
constructed in different sizes and is generally required to be located, according to the current
edition of the California Plumbing Code, underground between any establishment, including
food service establishments that generate FOG, and the connection to the sewer system.
Hydromechanical Grease Interceptors," ( HGI) commonly referred to as grease traps,
shall mean a device that is designed to retain grease from one to a maximum of four fixtures.
HGls serve individual fixtures.
Infiltration" shall mean water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections,
or manhole walls.
Inflow" shall mean water entering a sewer system through a direct stormwater runoff
connection to the sanitary sewer, which may cause an almost immediate increase in wastewater
flows.
Manifest" shall mean that receipt which is retained by the generator of wastes for
disposing recyclable wastes or liquid wastes as required by the City.
New Construction" shall mean any structure planned or under construction for which
a sewer connection permit has not been issued.
Owner" includes a holder in fee, life tenant, executor, administrator, trustee, and
guardian or fiduciary, lessee or licensee holding under any government lease or license of real
property.
Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or public
agency, including the State of California and the United States of America.
Remodeling" shall mean a physical change or operation change causing generation of
the amount of FOG that exceed the current amount of FOG discharge to the sewer system by
the food service facility in an amount that alone or collectively causes or creates a potential for
sewer system overflows to occur; or requires a building permit and involves any one or
14. 12 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
combination of the following: ( 1) under slab plumbing in the food processing area, ( 2) a thirty
percent increase in the net public seating area, ( 3) a thirty percent increase in the size of the
kitchen area, or (4) any change in the size or type of food preparation equipment.
Sample Point" shall mean a location approved by the City, from which wastewater can
be collected that is representative in content and consistency of the entire flow of wastewater
being sampled.
Sampling Facilities" shall mean structure(s) provided at the user' s expense for the
City or user to measure and record wastewater constituent mass, concentrations, collect a
representative sample, or provide access to plug or terminate the discharge.
Sewer or Sewer System" shall mean any and all facilities used for collecting,
conveying, pumping, treating, and disposing of wastewater and sludge. This definition includes
but is not limited to any property belonging to the City used in the treatment, reclamation, reuse,
transportation, or disposal of wastewater or sludge.
Sewer Lateral" shall mean a building sewer as defined in the latest edition of the
California Plumbing Code. It is the wastewater connection between the building' s wastewater
facilities and a public sewer system.
Sewer System Overflow" ( SSO) shall mean any overflow, spill, release, discharge or
diversion of untreated or partially treated wastewater from a sewer system or sewer lateral.
Sludge" shall mean any solid, semisolid or liquid decant, subnate or supernate from a
manufacturing process, utility service, or pretreatment facility.
Waste" shall mean sewage and any and all other waste substances, liquid, solid,
gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation or of human or animal nature,
including such wastes placed within containers of whatever nature prior to and for the purpose
of disposal.
Wastewater" shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes of the community and all
constituents thereof, whether treated or untreated, discharged into or permitted to enter a public
sewer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.030 FOG Discharge Requirement
No establishment shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the sewer system FOG
that accumulates and/ or causes or contributes to blockages in the sewer system or at the sewer
lateral, which connects the establishment to the sewer system.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.040 Enforcement of Chapter
The City Engineer or his/ her designee is responsible for enforcement of this chapter and
for all determinations of compliance with it.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.050 Prohibitions
The following prohibitions shall apply to food service establishments that generate FOG:
A. Installation of food grinders in the plumbing system of new construction of any
food service establishment that generate FOG, is prohibited. Furthermore, all food grinders
must be removed from existing food service establishments that generate FOG, as determined
by the City Engineer, within 90 days of written notice to remove.
14. 12 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Introduction of any additives into any establishment' s wastewater system for the
purpose of emulsifying FOG is prohibited.
C. Disposal of waste cooking oil into drainage pipes is prohibited. All waste cooking
oils shall be collected and stored properly in receptacles such as barrels or drums for recycling
or other acceptable methods of disposal.
D. Discharge of wastewater from dishwashers to any grease control device is
prohibited.
E. Discharge of wastewater with temperatures in excess of 140 F to any grease
control device, including grease traps and grease interceptors, is prohibited.
F. The use of biological additives for grease remediation or as a supplement to
grease control device maintenance is prohibited, unless written approval from the City Engineer
is obtained.
G. Discharge of wastes from toilets, urinals, wash basins, and other fixtures
containing fecal materials to sewer lines intended for grease control device service, or vice
versa, is prohibited.
H. Discharge into the sewer system of any waste which has FOG as well as solid
materials removed from the grease control device is prohibited. Grease removed from grease
control devices shall be wastehauled periodically as part of the operation and maintenance
requirements for grease control devices. Licensed wastehaulers or an approved recycling
facility must be used to dispose of FOG, including waste cooking oil.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.060 FOG Pretreatment Required
A. All new food service establishments are required to install, operate and maintain
an approved type and adequately sized gravity grease interceptor necessary to maintain
compliance with the objectives of this chapter. Existing food service establishments with no
grease control device shall install, operate and maintain an approved type and adequately sized
gravity grease interceptor upon change of ownership or if a food service establishment
undergoes remodeling or a change in operations as defined in Section 14. 12. 020.
B. The gravity grease interceptor shall be adequate to separate and remove FOG
contained in wastewater discharges from any establishment prior to discharge to the sewer
system consistent with the gravity grease interceptor requirements of this chapter.
C. Property owners of commercial developments or their official designee( s) shall
be responsible for the installation and maintenance of the gravity grease interceptor serving
multiple establishments that are located on a single parcel.
D. Alternative to Gravity Grease Interceptor Requirement: An alternative from the
gravity grease interceptor requirements allows alternative pretreatment technology that is, at
least, equally effective in controlling the FOG discharge in lieu of a gravity grease interceptor,
may be approved for food service establishments. Additionally, an alternative from the gravity
grease interceptor requirement may be approved to food service establishments demonstrating
that it is impossible or impracticable to install, operate or maintain a gravity grease interceptor.
The City Engineer' s determination to approve an alternative method will be based upon, but not
limited to, evaluation of the following conditions:
1. The availability of adequate space for installation and/ or maintenance of a
gravity grease interceptor.
2. The availability of adequate slope for gravity flow between the kitchen
plumbing fixtures and the gravity grease interceptor and/ or between the gravity grease
interceptor and the private lines and public sewer collection lines.
14. 12 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The food service establishment can justify that the alternative
pretreatment technology is equivalent to or better than a gravity grease interceptor in controlling
its FOG discharge. In addition, the food service facility must be able to demonstrate, after
installation of the proposed alternative pretreatment, its effectiveness to control FOG discharge
through downstream visual monitoring of the sewer system.
E. Food service establishments with an approved alternative to gravity grease
interceptor will be required to install HGIs or approved alternative pretreatment technology in the
waste line leading from drains, sinks, and other fixtures or equipment where grease may be
introduced into the sewer system in quantities that can cause blockage.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.070 Sewer System Overflows and Cleanup Costs
Establishments found to have contributed to a sewer blockage, SSO, or any sewer
system interferences resulting from the discharge of wastewater or waste containing FOG, may
be ordered to install and maintain a gravity grease interceptor, and may be subject to a plan to
abate the nuisance and prevent any future health hazards created by sewer line failures and
blockages, SSOs or any other sewer system interferences. If the City must act to contain
and/ or cleanup an SSO caused by blockage of a private or public sewer lateral or system, or at
the request of the property owner or operator of the establishment, or because of the failure of
the property owner or establishment to abate the condition causing a threat to the health, safety,
welfare, or property of the public, or because of an unauthorized discharge of FOG, the City's
costs for such abatement will be entirely borne by the property owner or operator of the
establishment, and said cost will constitute a debt to the City and become due and payable
upon the City' s request for reimbursement of such costs.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.080 Nuisance Declared
SSOs may cause threat and injury to the public health, safety, and welfare of life and
property and are hereby declared public nuisances.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.090 Gravity Grease Interceptor Design Requirements
A. General provisions.
1. The installation of a proper grease control device shall be the
responsibility of the user who applies for sewer service and the user whose operations cause or
contribute to the necessity for the grease control device.
2. Grease control devices shall be installed, utilized, and properly
maintained for continuous and efficient operation at all times and at the expense of the user.
3. The administrative authority shall approve the type, capacity and
construction of all grease control device in writing prior to installation.
4. A common gravity grease interceptor shared by multiple businesses can
be utilized if specifically authorized by the administrative authority and upon evidence of legal
operating and maintenance agreements between the involved property owners.
5. Grease control devices no longer in use shall be abandoned in
accordance with the California Plumbing Code.
14. 12 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Design.
1. Grease control devices for food service establishments shall be sized and
designed in compliance with the California Plumbing Code, unless otherwise specified herein.
2. Other factors that may influence the design include, but shall not be
limited to the following:
a. The type of facility ( such as a restaurant, bakery, food processing
factory, etc.).
b. The volume of the user's business or operation ( such as number
of meals served, number of seats, hours of operation, etc.).
C. The peak flow of process wastewater discharged to the sewer
sanitation system.
d. Size and nature of facilities ( including kitchen facilities) based on
size, type, number of fixtures, and type of processing or cooking equipment used.
e. The type of service provided or operation undertaken ( such as
dine- in meal service versus carry- out meal service).
f. The type of foods or other materials used in cooking, processing
or manufacturing operations conducted within the facility.
g. The overall potential for grease- laden discharges.
h. The existence of devices, procedures or processes designed to
minimize the amounts of FOG from entering the sewer system.
3. All gravity grease interceptors shall be certified by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officers ( IAPMO), or another listing agency approved
by the City Engineer, and be installed according to the California Plumbing Code.
4. All gravity grease interceptors shall include an effluent sample box of a
type and size approved by the administrative authority.
5. Inspection by the Building Official, or an authorized building inspector, of
installed interceptors and piping prior to backfilling is required. Installation shall meet the
requirements of the California Plumbing Code.
6. Gravity grease interceptors shall have a cleanout installed after the
sample box on the private lateral and at intervals required by the California Plumbing Code.
7. All manholes and sample boxes are to be installed a minimum of one- half
inch above the finished grade with a sloped concrete collar in accordance with City of Vista
Standard Drawings around the manhole and sample box lids and comply with disabled access
requirements.
C. Required Connections to grease control devices. All three-compartment sinks,
scullery ( preparation) sinks, floor drains, and mop sinks along a cook line, prewash sinks at
dishwashing stations, and all other fixtures that contribute grease into the wastewater system
shall be connected to a grease control device.
D. Prohibited Connections or Additives to Grease Control Devices.
1. Final rinse discharge from automatic dishwashers shall not be connected
to the interceptor.
2. The use of any additives, such as chlorinated solvents, or any other
additives that causes the emulsification of grease, are strictly prohibited from use in any type of
grease control device.
E. Plan Review.
1. Applicants or users shall be required to submit copies of detailed facility
proposed grease control devices, pretreatment facilities, spill containment facilities, and
operating procedures, to the Community Development Department. Facility plans shall also
include site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all
wastewater plumbing, spill containment, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation.
14. 12 ( 6) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
The review of the plans and procedures shall in no way relieve the user of the responsibility of
modifying the facilities or discharge, and to meet the requirements of this chapter or any
requirements of other regulatory agencies.
2. The City may require drawings and calculations to be prepared by a
licensed and registered professional engineer. Any false information or misleading calculations
submitted shall be the responsibility of the user.
3. The design, location and procedures for operation and maintenance of a
required grease control device shall be approved by the administrative authority. Such approval
shall be obtained prior to the user' s connection of the facility to the public wastewater system.
4. No food service establishment or other identified user shall be
constructed except according to plans and specifications approved by the administrative
authority.
5. Approved plans and specifications shall not be changed or altered without
written approval by the administrative authority.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.100 Gravity Grease Interceptor Maintenance Requirements
A. Any user who is required by the City Engineer or the ordinance codified in this
chapter to install or operate a grease control device shall be required to adequately maintain the
grease control device at user' s expense, so that the grease control device is in proper working
order at all times. Maintenance shall include the complete removal of all contents, including
floating materials, wastewater, sludge, and solids. Decanting or discharging of removed waste
back into the grease control device from which the waste was removed or into any other grease
control device, for the purpose of reducing the volume to be hauled is prohibited.
B. All grease control devices shall be cleaned out completely by a permitted waste
hauler as necessary to assure that the grease control device will operate as designed at all
times or as otherwise specified by the City Engineer.
C. The use of additives, directly or indirectly injected to the plumbing or sewer
system, to emulsify grease and/ or oil is specifically prohibited.
D. The use of biological additives as a supplement to grease control device
maintenance, including the addition of micro-organisms, may be authorized by the City Engineer
and approval shall be obtained in writing prior to the use of such additives.
E. A maintenance log indicating each pumping of a grease control device for the
previous 12 months and any other pertinent information shall be maintained by each
establishment. This log shall include, but not be limited to, date, time, amount pumped, hauler,
and disposal site, and the log shall be kept in a conspicuous location for inspection by the City
Engineer or an authorized inspector during normal business hours.
F. All users must sign a waste manifest form before having waste load transported
by a permitted hauler. The user shall also keep copies of the manifest form for a period of at
least five years, and make all manifest records available for inspection by the City Engineer
during normal business hours.
G. All waste removed from a grease control device must be disposed at a facility
permitted by the County of San Diego or applicable regulatory agencies to receive such waste.
The waste shall not be returned to the public sewer system or manhole, any private wastewater
system or storm drains.
H. All grease control devices shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning, inspection, and removal of intercepted waste.
I. Any fixture connected to a grease control device shall have a nonremovable,
secured food strainer of such integrity to withstand daily operational usage.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
14. 12 ( 7) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14. 12.110 Best Management Practices
A. Generally.
All establishments shall implement Best Management Practices in its operation to
minimize the discharge of FOG to the sewer system.
B. Drain screens.
1. Drain screens shall be installed on all drainage pipes in food preparation
and kitchen areas for existing food service establishments within 90 days from the effective date
of this ordinance.
2. Drain screens shall be installed on all drainage pipes in food preparation
and kitchen areas for all new food service establishments.
C. Waste cooking oil.
1. All waste cooking oil shall be collected and stored properly in recycling
barrels or drums.
2. Such recycling barrels or drums shall be maintained appropriately to
ensure they do not leak.
3. Licensed haulers or approved recycling facility must be used to dispose of
waste cooking oil.
D. Food waste. All food waste shall be placed in enclosed plastic bags and
disposed of directly into the trash or garbage, and not in sinks or toilets.
E. Kitchen exhaust filters shall be cleaned as frequently as necessary to be
maintained in good operating condition, but in no event less than one time per month.
F. Kitchen exhaust filters and floor mats shall not be washed in dishwasher.
G. Employee training.
1. Employees of the food service establishment shall be trained within 180
days from the effective date of this ordinance and twice each calendar year thereafter, on the
following subjects:
a. How to " dry wipe" pots, pans, dishware and work areas before
washing to remove grease;
b. How to properly dispose of food waste and solids in plastic bags
and securely close such bags prior to disposal in trash bins or containers to prevent leaking and
odors;
C. The location and use of absorption products to clean under fryer
baskets and other locations where grease may be spilled or dripped; and
d. How to properly dispose of grease or oils from cooking equipment
into a grease barrel or drum without spilling.
2. Training shall be documented and employee signatures retained
indicating each employee's attendance and understanding of the practices.
3. Training records shall be available for review at any reasonable time by
the authorized inspector.
H. All best management practices shall be posted conspicuously in the food
preparation and dishwashing areas at all times.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.120 Monitoring, Reporting, and Record Keeping Requirements
A. Monitoring and reporting requirements.
1. The City Engineer may require periodic reporting of the status of
implementation of Best Management Practices.
14. 12 ( 8) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The City Engineer may require visual monitoring at the sole expense of
the establishment which generates FOG to observe the actual conditions of any
establishment' s, including food service establishments that generate FOG, sewer lateral and
sewer lines downstream.
3. The City Engineer may require reports for self-monitoring of wastewater
constituents and FOG characteristics for the establishment needed for determining compliance
with this chapter. Failure by the establishment to perform any required monitoring, or to submit
monitoring reports required by the City Engineer constitutes a violation of this chapter and be
cause for the City to initiate all necessary measures and analyses to determine the wastewater
constituents and FOG characteristics for compliance with any conditions and requirements
specified in this chapter. The establishment shall be responsible for any and all expenses of the
City in undertaking such monitoring analyses and preparation of reports.
4. Other reports may be required such as compliance schedule progress
reports, FOG control monitoring reports, and any other reports deemed reasonably appropriate
by the City Engineer to ensure compliance with this chapter.
B. Record keeping requirements.
1. Establishments shall be required to keep all manifests, receipts and
invoices of all cleaning, maintenance, grease removal of/from the grease control device,
disposal carrier and disposal site location for no less than five years. The establishment shall,
upon request, make the manifests, receipts and invoices available to the City Engineer or his
designee. These shall include:
a. A logbook of grease control device cleaning and maintenance
practices.
b. A record of Best Management Practices being implemented
including employee training.
C. Copies of records and manifests of waste hauling grease control
device contents and/ or waste cooking oil disposal.
d. Records of sampling data and sludge height monitoring for FOG
and solids accumulation in grease control devices.
e. Any other information deemed appropriate by the City Engineer to
ensure compliance with this Chapter.
C. Falsifying information or tampering with grease control device.
1. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement, representation, record,
report, plan or other document that is filed with the City.
2. It shall be unlawful to tamper with or knowingly render inoperable any
grease control device, monitoring device or method or access point required by this chapter.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.130 Inspection and Sampling Conditions
A. The City Engineer or his designee may inspect or order the inspection and
sample the wastewater discharges of any establishment subject to this chapter to ascertain
whether the provisions of this chapter are being met. The establishment shall allow the City
Engineer or his designee access to the premises, during normal business hours, for purposes of
inspecting the establishment' s grease control devices or interceptor, reviewing the manifests,
receipts and invoices relating to the cleaning, maintenance and inspection of the grease control
devices or interceptor.
B. The City Engineer or his designee shall have the right to place or order the
placement on the establishment' s property or other locations as determined by the City
Engineer, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations.
14. 12 ( 9) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Where any establishment has security measures in force, the establishment shall make
necessary arrangements so that representatives of the City shall be permitted to enter without
delay for the purpose of performing their specific responsibilities.
C. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged
shall allow the City Engineer or his designee reasonable access to all parts of the wastewater
generating and disposal facilities for the purpose of inspection and sampling during all times the
discharger' s facilities are open, operating, or any other reasonable time.
D. In order for the City Engineer to determine the wastewater characteristics of the
discharger for purposes of determining the annual use charge, the establishment shall make
available for inspection and copying by the City all notices, monitoring reports, waste manifests,
and records including, but not limited to, those related to wastewater generation, and
wastewater disposal. All such records shall be kept for a minimum of four years.
1. Sampling and inspection of any establishments, including food service
establishments, that generate FOG shall be conducted in the time, place, manner and
frequency determined at the sole discretion of the City Engineer.
2. Any sample taken from a sample point is considered to be representative
of the discharge to the public sewer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.140 Right of Inspection
Food service establishments shall be open and available for inspection by an authorized
inspector at all times during normal business hours to ensure that the operation and
maintenance of the food service establishment complies with the requirements of this chapter.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.150 Notification of Spill
A. In the event an establishment is unable to comply with any permit condition or
provision of this chapter due to a breakdown of equipment, accidents, or human error or the
establishment has reasonable opportunity to know that his/ her/its discharge will exceed the
discharge provisions of this chapter, the discharger shall immediately notify the City Engineer by
telephone. If the material discharged to the sewer has the potential to cause or result in sewer
blockages or SSOs, the discharger shall immediately notify the City.
B. Confirmation of this notification shall be made in writing to the City Engineer no
later than five working days from the date of the incident. The written notification shall state the
date of the incident, the reasons for the discharge or spill, what steps were taken to prevent the
problem from recurring.
C. Such notification shall not relieve the establishment of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage or loss to the City or any
other damage or loss to persons or property; nor shall such notification relieve the
establishment of any fees or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
14. 12 ( 10) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14. 12.160 Penalty Imposed on City by Regulatory Agencies
Any person who discharges a waste which causes or contributes to the City violating its
discharge requirements established by any regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the City
incurring additional expenses or suffering losses or damage to the facilities, shall be liable for
any costs or expenses incurred by the City, including regulatory fines, penalties, and
assessments made by other agencies or a court.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
Section 14. 12.170 Penalties for Violations; Enforcement
Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter may result in one or more of the
following:
A. Notice of noncompliance may be issued with a specified period for correction.
B. Administrative citations may be issued for violations in the amounts and manner
set forth in Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
C. A misdemeanor complaint may be filed in accordance with Chapter 1. 16 of this
code.
D. Sewer service may be disconnected as described in Section 14. 01. 090 of this
code.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2014- 1, Amended
1/ 14/ 14)
14. 12 ( 11) Vista 2/ 14/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14.14
Private Sewer Laterals
Sections:
14. 14.010 Purpose and Intent
14. 14.020 Definitions
14. 14.030 Application within the City
14. 14.040 Property Owner Responsibility
14. 14.050 Standard of Maintenance
14. 14.060 Notice and Required Corrections
14. 14.070 Repair and Replacement
14. 14.080 Enforcement and Remedies
Section 14. 14.010 Purpose and Intent
A. It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish regulations for the
maintenance, repair, and replacement of private sewer laterals within the city.
B. It is the further purpose and intent of this chapter to increase public awareness of
private sewer systems and the impact of sewer spills on public health and the environment, to
prevent blockages of the sewer system and accidental discharge of wastewater into the storm
drain system, to provide for the maximum beneficial use of the City's sewer system, to ensure
the regulations are equitably implemented throughout the city, and to protect public health,
safety, welfare and the environment.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined. To the extent not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, terms defined in the Plumbing Code shall apply.
Authorized inspector" means an inspector so designated by the City Engineer.
Building Code" means the most recent edition of the California Building Code as
adopted ( with or without amendments) by the City.
Common interest development" means a development characterized by individual
ownership of a housing unit or parcel coupled with the shared ownership or right to use common
areas and facilities, including, but not limited to, condominium projects, community apartment
projects, stock cooperatives, and planned developments.
Corrected grace period" means a period of 180 days from the earlier of:
A. The date of issuance of a notice of participation to a private property owner.
B. The date of video inspection of a sewer lateral related to a private property
building remodel, a common interest development, or a multi- unit complex sewer lateral system.
Corrective measures" means appropriate actions taken by a property owner to
maintain a fully functional private sewer lateral. Corrective measures may include, but are not
limited to, video inspection, a program of scheduled cleaning, repair or replacement of a private
lateral. Any repairs or line replacement must be made in accordance with Title 14 of this code
and the Plumbing Code.
Failure to act" means a situation in which a private property owner has been notified
by the City or has knowledge that the property' s sewer lateral may not be fully functional and
has failed to make an objective good faith effort to properly maintain a fully functional private
sewer lateral servicing the owner's property, and a sanitary sewer overflow has occurred.
14. 14 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Fully functional private sewer lateral" means a private sewer lateral that is
structurally sound, free of impediments, is maintained in a safe and sanitary condition, does not
cause an obstruction within the public sewer, and does not constitute a public nuisance.
Multi- unit complexes" means a development consisting of a building or buildings or
portion thereof designed or used exclusively for multiple family residential occupancy, including,
but not limited to, apartments, apartment houses, and duplexes, and excluding common interest
developments.
Notice of participation" means a written notification from the City advising a property
owner of corrective measures that may be taken by the property owner to ensure the private
sewer lateral is fully functional.
Plumbing Code" means the most recent edition of the California Plumbing Code as
adopted ( with or without amendments) by the City.
Private property building remodels" means all construction projects including
additions, alterations, or repairs that require a building permit, and that either:
A. Involve a bathroom, kitchen or laundry facility.
B. Constitute a valuation of 40 percent or greater. For purposes of this subdivision,
valuation" means the estimated cost to replace a building and structure in- kind, based on the
current replacement costs as established in the City's resolution for computation of building
permit fees.
Private sewer lateral" means that portion of a private property' s building sewer as
defined by the Plumbing Code, and is further defined as piping of a drainage system that
extends from the end of the building drain to the public sewer, which includes the connection to
the public sewer.
Public sewer" means a common sewer directly controlled by the City.
Qualified plumber" means:
A. A company or plumber that meets the qualifications to participate in a City private
sewer lateral program.
B. A company or plumber with a valid City business license and the appropriate
licensure, as required by the state, to provide private sewer lateral services, including video
inspection, cleaning, maintenance, repair, and connection to the public sewer.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.030 Application within the City
These rules shall apply to every private sewer lateral in the city that is directly connected
to a public sewer for which the City has maintenance responsibility.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.040 Property Owner Responsibility
A. Every property owner whose property is serviced by a private sewer lateral shall
be responsible for all preventative and corrective maintenance activities for the private sewer
lateral including the connection to the public sewer, which may include, but is not limited to,
cleaning, repair or replacement of the line and connection joint.
B. A property owner shall complete necessary corrective measures within the
corrective grace period to ensure that the private lateral is fully functional.
C. The City Engineer shall have the authority to, in his or her sole and absolute
discretion, extend the correction grace period if a property owner makes a request for an
extension of time and presents good cause for the request.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 14 (2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 14. 14.050 Standard of Maintenance
A. All private sewer laterals, whether existing as of the effective date of this chapter
or hereafter constructed, shall be operated and maintained by the private property owner in
accordance with the requirement set forth is Section 14. 02. 020 of this code.
B. The City Engineer shall be authorized to, in his sole and absolute discretion,
require additional information from a property owner and to inspect corrections or repairs to
assure that such work has been performed in accordance with all applicable rules and codes. If
the City Engineer determines that a correction or repair is inadequate, then the City shall notify
the property owner and the property owner shall be responsible for completing the necessary
further corrections or repairs. The City shall provide notice to the property owner upon the
City' s acceptance of the corrections or repairs.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.060 Notice and Required Corrections
A. Where City inspection and/ or investigation reveals that a property' s private sewer
lateral may not be functional, the City shall provide the property owner with a written notice of
violation and advising the property owner of the corrective measures that should be taken.
B. The property owner may contact a qualified plumber to have the private sewer
lateral inspected and, if necessary, cleaned or repaired.
C. If the inspection demonstrates that the private sewer lateral is functional and that
cleaning, repair or replacement is not necessary, then no corrective measures shall be required.
D. If the inspection demonstrates that the private sewer lateral is not functional, then
the property owner is responsible to take the corrective measures within the correction grace
period to make the line fully functional.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.070 Repair and Replacement
A. Every property owner is required within the correction grace period to make the
private sewer lateral serving the property fully functional as described in this code.
B. Repair and replacement of a private sewer lateral requires a City plumbing permit
for the work on private property and an encroachment permit for work within a public right- ofway,
which includes the connection to the public sewer. Prior to issuance of a permit by the City
to complete corrective measures, the property owner shall submit a plot plan indicating the
location of the private sewer lateral line and the proposed corrective measures. A final
inspection of the work by the City's authorized inspector is required as part of the City's
permitting process.
C. Spot repairs. If only a portion of the private sewer lateral is defective, the owner
may elect to perform a spot repair. Upon completion of the repair, the private sewer lateral shall
be tested and must pass the requirements of the Plumbing Code and City standards.
D. New or replaced sewer laterals. All new or replaced private sewer laterals shall
be approved, designed, and constructed in accordance with Title 14 of this code and the
Plumbing Code.
1. All new and replaced private sewer laterals and pipe joint connections
shall be constructed using materials approved by the director and are designed to prevent root
intrusion for the life of the product.
2. All new or replaced private sewer laterals shall include a cleanout located
at or near the property line. The cleanout shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
Title 14 of this code and the Plumbing Code.
14. 14 (3) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Upon completion of the line replacement, the private sewer lateral shall
be tested and must pass the requirements of the Plumbing Code and City standards.
E. Private sewer laterals that have been installed or replaced and are less than ten
years old, are exempt from the provisions of this code. It is the property owner's responsibility
to submit to the City proof of installation or replacement of a private sewer lateral. This ten- year
period is in effect unless a City inspection and/ or investigation reveals that a property's private
sewer lateral may not be functional as specified in this code.
F. When the necessary corrective measures have been completed within the
correction grace period, the property owner may provide the City with documentation of the
corrective measures taken.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 14.080 Enforcement and Remedies
A. A public nuisance in accordance with Chapter 8. 36 of this code shall be deemed
to exist upon failure to act as defined in Section 14. 14. 040 of this chapter.
1. The City shall investigate all sewer overflows from private property to
determine whether a failure to act has occurred.
2. The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine whether or not
a failure to act has occurred and what enforcement action, if any, may be appropriate.
B. A failure to act or a violation of the provisions of this chapter by a private property
owner may result in one or more of the following:
1. A notice of noncompliance may be issued with a specified period for
correction.
2. An administrative citations may be issued for violations in the amounts
and manner set forth in Chapter 1. 13 of this code.
3. The City Council may impose a fine of up to ten dollars per gallon of
spilled sewage and up to $ 10, 000 a day for a closure of a public property as a result of a spill
from private property.
4. A misdemeanor complaint may be filed in accordance with Chapter 1. 16
of this code.
5. Sewer service may be discontinued as described in Section 14. 01. 090 of
this code.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 14 (4) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 14. 16
Septic Tank Systems
Sections:
14. 16. 010 General Restrictions
14. 16. 020 Requirements for Septic Tank Systems
14. 16. 030 Connection to Public Sewer System
14. 16. 040 Application Procedures - Existing Lots
14. 16. 050 Authority to Adopt by Resolution
Section 14. 16. 010 General Restrictions
A. No septic tank system shall be installed or constructed unless the public sewer
system is not adjacent to the proposed development and the local sewer agency or City
Engineer determines that extension of the public sewer system is not feasible.
B. No septic tank system shall be installed or constructed unless it meets all of the
requirements of this chapter and Chapter 3 of Division 8 of Title 6 of the San Diego County
Code of Regulatory Ordinance as adopted by reference.
C. A septic tank system shall be the only acceptable alternative method of sewage
disposal when connection to the public sewer is not available.
D. No septic tank effluent disposal system other than conventional leach lines or
seepage pits may be constructed or installed on any lot or parcel.
E. No sewage other than domestic sewage may be discharged into any septic tank
system.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 16. 020 Requirements for Septic Tank Systems
The following requirements shall be met prior to approval of the construction or
installation of a septic tank system:
A. Each newly created lot or parcel to be used for residential purposes which is to
be served by a septic tank system shall have a minimum area of 15, 000 feet per dwelling unit or
as required by the applicable zoning ordinance, whichever is greater.
B. Each newly created lot or parcel to be used for industrial or commercial purposes
which is to be served by a septic tank system shall have a minimum area of one acre.
C. The minimum lot or parcel areas required by this section shall not include:
1. Panhandle" areas of a lot.
2. Slopes in excess of 25 percent.
3. Deep fills or ravines.
D. Each septic tank system shall conform to all the current rules, regulations,
policies, codes, and ordinances of the county.
E. Each lot or parcel which is to be served by a septic tank system shall have an
additional area suitable for expansion of the system equivalent to at least 100 percent of the
total area used for the initial leach line or seepage pit installation.
F. A septic tank system permit shall be obtained from the County Department of
Public Health and one copy of this permit shall be submitted for each lot or building at the time
the building plans are submitted to the Community Development Director for plan check.
14. 16 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
G. The public sewer system shall be extended for future use to within one foot of
each lot or parcel, which is to be served by a septic system. The sewer line shall be
constructed in a manner and location approved by the City Engineer or local sewer agency.
This requirement may be waived if the City Engineer determines that extension of the public
sewer system is not feasible.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 16. 030 Connection to Public Sewer System
A structure or lot being served by a septic tank system may not obtain a sewer
connection permit as long as the city has no available sewage treatment capacity as may be
determined by the City Manager, unless the City Engineer and the County Public Health Officer
have determined that the existing septic tank system has failed and constitutes a health hazard
and that there is no additional area available for expansion of the existing system and that the
existing system cannot be repaired.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 16. 040 Application Procedures  Existing Lots
A. Before the applicant submits plans to the Community Development Director, the
applicant shall submit to the City Engineer the following:
1. A letter requesting City approval for use of a septic tank system.
2. Soil conditions of trench or seepage pits and percolation test reports for
each lot.
3. Two copies of proposed development plans including a plot plan showing
the size and placement of all buildings and a preliminary grading plan.
4. In addition, for commercial and industrial zoned property, the applicant
shall also permit proposed use( s), area( s), and estimated sewage flow for each building.
5. Such other information as may be required by the City Engineer.
B. The City Engineer shall review the information and will issue a letter approving or
disapproving the use of the proposed septic tank system. The decision of the City Engineer
shall be final.
C. At the time of the submission of the letter requesting City approval, the applicant
shall pay to the Engineering Department a processing fee as may be adopted by the City
Council by resolution for each commercially or industrially zoned lot for which the septic system
is proposed.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 14. 16. 050 Authority to Adopt by Resolution
The City Council shall have the authority to adopt by resolution any additional
requirements for the installation and construction of septic tanks as it may determine are
necessary for the protection, health, and welfare of the public.
Ord. No. 2009- 10, Amended & Readopted Title 14 in its Entirety, 4/ 14/ 09)
14. 16 (2) Vista 3/ 29/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code Index
MUNICIPAL CODE INDEX Adult-oriented business performer license
9. 12. 120
A - Adult- oriented business regulatory permit
required 9. 12. 030
Appeal procedures 9. 12. 100
ABANDONED VEHICLE Definitions 9. 12. 020
Administration, enforcement, scope, authority Display of license and identification cards
10. 56. 050 9. 12. 160
Definitions 10. 56. 020 Employment of and services rendered to
Exempt vehicles, parts designated 10. 56. 030 Persons under the age of 18 years
Findings, nuisance declaration 10. 56. 010 prohibited; 21 if liquor is served 9. 12. 060
Parking, storage, unlawful when, exceptions Enforcement and violations 9. 12. 200
10. 56. 160 Inspections 9. 12. 070
Provisions deemed supplemental 10. 56. 040 Investigation and action on application for adult-
Violation, penalty 10. 56. 170 oriented business performer license 9. 12. 130
Investigation and action on application for adult-
ABANDONED VEHICLE ABATEMENT, oriented regulatory permit 9. 12. 040
REMOVAL Legislative purpose 9. 12. 010
Appeals 10. 56. 120
Purpose 9. 12. 110
Authority generally, right of entry 10. 56. 080
Regulations non- exclusive 9. 12. 210
Authorized persons, right of entry 10. 56. 060 Severability 9. 12. 220
Costs, delinquent, assessment against land
Suspension or revocation of adult-oriented
10. 56. 150
business performer license 9. 12. 140
Costs, determination 10. 56. 070
Suspension of adult-oriented business
Hearing, procedure, decision 10. 56. 110 regulatory permit 9. 12. 090
Hearing, request, notice 10. 56. 100
Transfer of adult-oriented business
Notice of intention, contents, service regulatory permit 9. 12. 080
10. 56. 090
Violations 9. 12. 200
Notice to department of motor vehicles
10. 56. 140 ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Procedure generally 10. 56. 130 PERFORMER LICENSE
Adult- oriented business performer license
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION purpose 9. 12. 110
Advance deposit hardship waiver 1. 13. 100 Adult-oriented business performer license
Allocation of administrative penalties 1. 13. 150 9. 12. 120
Amount of fine 1. 13. 060 Adult-oriented business performer license
Civil or criminal actions not affected 1. 13. 160 investigation and action on application
Contents of administrative citation 1. 13. 040 9. 12. 130
Court review procedures 1. 13. 130 Suspension or revocation of adult-oriented
Definitions 1. 13. 020 business performer license 9. 12. 140
Hearing procedures 1. 13. 110 Appeal of denial or revocation of adult- oriented
Hearing officer's decision 1. 13. 120 business performer license 9. 12. 150
Payment of the administrative citation fine Display of license and identification cards
1. 13. 070 9. 12. 160
Request for initial administrative review 1. 13. 080 Register and license number of employees
Request for administrative hearing 1. 13. 090 9. 12. 170
Penalties assessed 1. 13. 140 Adult- oriented business performer license
Service of administrative citation 1. 13. 050 non- transferable 9. 12. 180
Title and purpose 1. 13. 010 Time limit for filing application for adult-
Use of administrative citations, separate oriented business performer license 9. 12. 190
violations 1. 13. 030 Enforcement and violations 9. 12. 200
Regulations non- exclusive 9. 12. 210
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES Severability 9. 12. 220
Adult- oriented business development and
performance standards 9. 12. 050
1 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
ADVERTISEMENT DISTRIBUTOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SALES
ADVERTISING
AND SERVICE
Definitions 5. 10. 010
See HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION Responsible Beverage Service Training
Required Proof 5. 10. 020
ADVERTISING BY SOUND Violation- Penalty 5. 10. 030
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WARNING
ADVERTISING FUND SIGN, NOTICE
See CITY ADVERTISING FUND Enforcement, scope, authority 5. 08. 060
Languages, use 5. 08. 040
ALARM SYSTEMS Placement, location 5. 08. 030
Alarm agent, registration requirements Posting required when, requirements
8. 44. 030 5. 08. 020
Appeals 8. 44. 060 Purpose of provisions 5. 08. 010
Burglary alarm, delay device required
8. 44. 100 AMBULANCE SERVICE,
Definitions, language interpretation 8. 44. 010 EMERGENCY
Direct- dial telephone device prohibited
Administration 13. 12. 040
8. 44. 050
Benefits, membership 13. 12. 090 Exempt facilities designated 8. 44. 020
Definitions 13. 12. 030
False alarm, prevention payments, penalty Eligibility 13. 12. 050
fees 8. 44. 070
Enrollment 13. 12. 060
Fees, deemed additional 8. 44. 140
Establishment, FireMed 13. 12. 020
Inspection, authority 8. 44. 080
Fee, enrollment 13. 12. 080
Liability of city, limitations 8. 44. 150
Membership classes 13. 12. 070
Permit required when, procedure, fees
Purpose 13. 12. 010
8. 44. 040
Respond, intent 13. 12. 100
Power supply, requirements 8. 44. 110
Revenues, use 13. 12. 110
Prohibited activities designated 8. 44. 130
Termination 13. 12. 120
Shutoff, automatic, required 8. 44. 090
Testing, requirements 8. 44. 120
AMBULANCE SERVICE, PRIVATE
Violation, penalty 8. 44. 160
Appeal of decisions by Fire Chief 8. 70. 160
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
Application fee 8. 70. 110
See also DANCE HALL, PUBLIC
Decision on application 8. 70. 060
TEENAGE DANCE
Definitions 8. 70. 020
Park, recreation areas, regulations 12. 08. 010
Exemptions 8. 70.040General requirements 8. 70. 120
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE,
Grounds for denial 8. 70. 070
Non- transferability of permit 8. 70. 170
CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES Notice and hearing upon suspension or
AND OTHER AREAS revocation 8. 70. 150
See also CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL OR Notification of denial of application 8. 70.080
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES BY MINORS Permit application 8. 70. 050
AT PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS Prohibited activities 8. 70. 130
Conditions for consumption 8. 68. 020 Prohibition of non- licensed ambulance services
Enforcement 5. 08.060, 8. 68. 040 8. 70. 030
Exception 5. 08. 050, 8. 68. 030 Provision of emergency service 8. 70. 200
Purpose 8. 68. 010 Purpose and intent 8. 70. 010
Renewal of permit 8. 70. 80
Reporting changes in information upon which
permit is issued 8. 70. 100
Suspension or revocation of permit 8. 70. 140
2 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Temporary permits 8. 70. 190 Bingo decisions 5. 16. 110
Term of permit 8. 70. 090 Business license decision 5. 04. 120
Food vending vehicle permit decisions
AMUSEMENT ATTRACTION 8. 24. 020
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND Interstate truck terminal designation, access
STREET EVENTS decisions 10. 60. 070
Massage provisions decisions 5. 56. 150
ANIMALS Permits for block parties and street events
See also BEES
appeals and reconsideration
DEAD ANIMAL DISPOSAL
12. 12. 070
DOGS Peep show permit decisions 5. 68. 110
Animals, impoundment 6. 05. 010
Refuse collection regulations decisions
Enforcement, 6. 05. 080
13. 16. 460
Fees, disposition 6. 05. 070 Street curb painting permit 10. 14. 060
Fees, lien 6. 05. 060 Swap meet, swap lot license decisions
Impoundment, rights 6. 05. 030
5. 76. 070
Location, 6. 05. 020
Teenage dance permit decisions 5. 84. 100
Notice, disposition 6. 05. 040
Weed, rubbish abatement decisions 8. 60. 060
Sale, public notice 6. 05. 050
Sale of dogs and cats 6. 10 APPLICATIONS
See also Specific Subject
ANIMAL CONTROL Filing, procedure generally 2. 05. 050
Belgian hare, confinement required 6. 08. 070
Belgian hare, releasing prohibited 6. 08. 080 ARCADE
Dog, in vehicle, ventilation requirements Business license tax 5. 04. 320
6. 04. 110
Dog, transporting in vehicle, requirements ARMORY
6. 04. 100 See PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES
Domestic animals defined 6. 04. 010
Exotic 6. 04. 040 ART SHOW
Fowl at large 6. 04. 030 See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND
Military property, straying on, prohibited STREET EVENTS
6. 04. 060
Park, recreation areas, regulations 12. 08. 010
Right of entry 6. 04. 050 ARTS COMMISSION
Running at large 6. 04. 020
See PUBIC ARTS COMMISSION
Target use, prohibitions, exceptions 6. 04. 090
Traffic Regulations, applicability 10. 08. 040
Vehicle in, ventilation requirements 6. 04. 110 ASSESSOR, CITY
Violation, penalty 6. 04. 120 Office abolished, duties transferred
3. 04. 010
APARTMENT HOTEL
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 ATHLETIC PERFORMANCE
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
APARTMENT HOUSE
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 ATTORNEY, CITY
See also OFFICERS, CITY
APIARY Appointment, disciplinary actions, removal
See BEES
2. 20. 080
APPEALS
AUCTIONEER, AUCTION
Abandoned vehicle abatement, removal
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
decisions 10. 56. 120
Definitions 5. 12. 010
Alarm system decisions 8. 44. 060
3 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
AUTO COURT Retailer, dealer, duties 10. 68. 050
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Sidewalks, riding 10. 68. 100
Traffic regulations, applicability 10. 08. 040
AUTO WRECKING YARD
See WRECKING YARD, JUNKYARD BICYCLE LICENSE
Fee 10. 68. 080
B _
Records, contents 10. 68. 040
Required 10. 68. 020
Transferability 10. 68. 070
BARGAIN BASEMENT STORES Type, term, renewal 10. 68. 030
Appeal 5. 92. 050
Application 5. 92. 030 BILLBOARD
Decision 5. 92. 040 Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Definitions 5. 92. 010
License Requirement 5. 92. 020 BILLIARD ROOM
License Revocation 5. 92. 060
See also POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM
Regulations 5. 92. 080
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Time Limits, Limitation of Rights 5. 92. 070
BAKER SUPPLIES BUSINESS
BINGO
VEHICLE
Appeals 5. 16. 110
Authorized, statutory authority 5. 16. 010
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Definitions 5. 16. 090
Premises, inspection, access 5. 26. 090
BEES Rules, regulations generally 5. 16. 080
Apiary, fire prevention regulations 6. 16. 060 Violation, penalty 5. 16. 120
Apiary, identification sign required when
6. 16. 040 BINGO LICENSE
Apiary, location restrictions 6. 16. 030 Denial, suspension, revocation, grounds
Definitions 6. 16. 010 5. 16. 100
Enforcement, scope, authority 6. 16. 080 Nontransferable 5. 16. 070
Provisions deemed supplemental 6. 16. 020 Required 5. 16. 030
Transportation, time restrictions 6. 16. 050 Term, renewal 5. 16. 040
Violation, notice, nuisance, abatement
6. 16. 070 BINGO LICENSE APPLICATION
BFees5. 16. 050
BELGIAN HARE Investigation, issuance when 5. 16. 060
See Animals
BEAUTIFICATION & IMPROVEMENT
BOARDINGHOUSE
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
COMMISSION
Appointment, qualifications 2. 52. 020 BOOKING FEES
Established, authority generally 2. 52. 010 Collection by city 3. 44. 050
Meetings, procedural rules 2. 52. 050 Collection responsibility 3. 44. 020
Officers 2. 52. 040 Execution 3. 44. 030
Powers, duties generally 2. 52. 060 Purpose 3. 44. 010
Term, vacancy filing 2. 52. 030 Trust account 3. 44. 040
BICYCLE BOND
Definitions 10. 68. 010 Auction, auctioneer license 5. 12. 160
Fee, license 10. 68. 080 Cable communications system 5. 32. 440
Identification, destroying 10. 68. 090 Clerk, city 2. 08. 020
Ownership, address change, procedure when Community antenna television system
10. 68. 060 franchise 5. 28. 130
Finance director 2. 24. 050
4 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Heavy vehicle, machinery, moving on street Legal impediments, effect 5. 04. 140
10. 44. 030 Posting, displaying 5. 04. 260
Manager, city 2. 20. 050 Prior ordinances, effect of provisions 5. 04.480
Purchasing contract 3. 08. 110 Prohibition for cannabis- related businesses
Refuse collection contract 13. 16. 250 5. 04. 145
Treasurer, city 2. 08.030 Purpose of provisions 5. 04. 030
Required, branch establishments, locations
BOTTLED WATER SUPPLY 5. 04. 060
BUSINESS, RETAIL, VEHICLE Required, generally, applicability 5. 04. 050
Business license tax 5. 04. 330
Title of provisions 5. 04. 010
Transferability 5. 04. 240
BREAD BUSINESS VEHICLE
Violation, effect of provisions 5. 04. 480
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Violation, penalty 5. 04.490
Violation, remedies cumulative 5. 04. 460
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
See TRAFFIC SIGNALS SYSTEM
Failure to file, correct, effect 5. 04. 200
IMPROVEMENT FEES
First license, procedure 5. 04. 150
BUNGALOW COURT
Information, confidentiality, disclosure
restrictions 5. 04. 190
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Misrepresentation prohibited 5. 04. 170
Renewal license, procedure 5. 04. 160
BUS ZONES Statements, records, requirements generally
See LOADING ZONES 5. 04. 180
Time extension when 5. 04. 220
BUSINESS
See Specific Business BUSINESS LICENSE ENFORCEMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE Construction contractors, subcontractors,
HEALTH REGULATIONS, COUNTY procedure 5. 40. 450
Rules, regulations promulgation, purpose
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT 5. 04.420
DISTRICT, CENTRAL VISTA Scope, authority generally 5. 04.430
Advisory board; appointment; duties 3. 52. 040
Collection of assessments; time & manner; BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
delinquencies 3. 52. 060 See also BUSINESS LICENSE
Definitions 3. 52. 030 ENFORCEMENT
Disestablishment of district, alternative Business, no fixed place in city 5. 04. 360
procedures 3. 52. 090 Constitutional regulations, adjustment when,
District boundaries; benefit zones 3. 52. 020 procedure 5. 04. 080
Establishment of district 3. 52. 010 Debt to city, collection 5. 04.440
Levying assessments, method & basis 3. 52. 050 Delinquent, penalties 5. 04. 280
Modification of district boundaries, assessments, Delivery by vehicle, wholesale 5. 04. 340
improvements or activities 3. 52. 080 Due date, proration when 5. 04. 270
Revenues 3. 52. 070 Flat rate, applicability 5. 04. 320
Gross receipts, generally 5. 04. 300
BUSINESS LICENSE Gross receipts, measurement, refund when
See also Specific Subject
5. 04. 390
Appeals 5. 04. 210
Gross receipts, wholesalers, jobbers,
Compliance requirements designated 5. 04. 130
5. 04. 390
Contents 5. 04. 230
Manufacturers 5. 04. 310
Definitions 5. 04. 020 Intercity business, refunding portion, procedure
Duplicate, issuance when, fee 5. 04. 250
5. 04. 370
Evidence of doing business designated
Mistakes, effect 5. 04. 470
5. 04. 070
Overpayment, refund, procedure 5. 04. 290
Exemptions generally 5. 04. 090
Payment, not to relieve other obligations
5 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
5. 04. 040 Application, investigation, fees 5. 24. 080
Payment, required 5. 04. 050 Classifications, tax 5. 24. 300
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX Grant, denial, grounds 5. 24. 090
Reclassification, purpose, procedure, effect Suspension, revocation, grounds 5. 24. 100
5. 04.410 Termination of 5. 24. 120
Vehicle, retail, service business use 5. 04. 330
Vehicle, use, purpose, interpretation of CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Provisions 5. 04. 350 See also COMMUNITY ANTENNA
Vending machine business 5. 04. 380 TELEVISION SYSTEM
Amendment of provisions, procedure 5. 32. 500
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX Capacity, capabilities, basic 5. 32. 310
EXEMPTIONS Compatibility 5. 32. 150
Charitable nonprofit organizations 5. 04. 100
Definitions 5. 32. 020
Disabled veterans 5. 04. 110
Extension, requirements 5. 32. 220
Generally, claiming, procedure 5. 04. 090
Faithful performance, bond requirements
Public utilities, when 5. 04. 120
5. 32.440
Faithful performance, security fund 5. 32.450
Indemnification of city 5. 32. 460
C " Insurance, requirements generally 5. 32. 420
Insurance, worker' s compensation 5. 32. 430
CABARET Interconnectibility 5. 32. 340
See also CABARET, DANCE HALL, PUBLIC Maintenance 5. 32. 270
Accessibility, closure, police officer authority Maintenance program, corrective maintenance
5. 24. 170 5. 32. 180
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Maintenance program, preventive maintenance
Closure, hours required 5. 24. 270 5. 32. 160
Defined 5. 24. 280 Notices, service, procedure 5. 32. 150
Employees, unlawful acts designated 5. 24. 160 Proof-of-performance testing 5. 32. 170
Intoxicated persons prohibited 5. 24. 220 Reports, records, plans, requirements 5. 32.480
Minors, prohibitions, exceptions 5. 24. 180 Rules, regulations, standards, adoption,
Provisions summary notice, operation without, procedure, scope 5. 32. 490
prohibited 5. 24. 260 Safety regulations 5. 32. 280
Provisions summary notice, posting required Standards generally 5. 32. 140
5. 24. 250 Title of provisions 5. 32. 010
Unlawful activities designated 5. 32. 520
CABARET, DANCE HALL Violation, penalty 5. 32. 530
EMPLOYEES
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Compensation, percentage basis, prohibited
5. 24. 060 CONSTRUCTION
Compliance requirements, applicability 5. 24. 130 Permits, licenses, authorizations, obtaining
Permit required 5. 24. 070 5. 32. 190
Prohibited acts designated 5. 24. 030, 5. 24.050, Rules, regulations generally 5. 32. 200
5. 24. 070 Street work, commencement completion,
removal 5. 32. 240
CABARET, DANCE HALL, PUBLIC Street work, regulations generally 5. 32. 230
See also CABARET DANCE HALL, PUBLIC
Underground facilities required when,
Police Officer, special, required, duties 5. 24. 110
requirements 5. 32. 210
CABARET ENTERTAINMENT CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Entertainers, adult persons required 5. 24. 150 FRANCHISE
Rules, regulations generally 5. 24. 140 Acceptance, procedure, effect 5. 32. 120
Unlawful acts designated 5. 24. 160 Amendment, procedure 5. 32. 500
Application procedure, initial franchise 5. 32. 100
CABARET LICENSE Application procedure, replacement franchise
5. 32. 110
6 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Fees, payments 5. 32.410 Definitions 5. 22. 010
Interpretation 5. 32. 070 Denial and revocation of licenses 5. 22. 060
Limitations 5. 32. 080 Operational requirements 5. 22. 080
Nature, extent 5. 32. 050 License required 5. 22. 020
Proposals, incorporation 5. 32. 040 Review of application 5. 22. 050
Required, nonexclusive, scope 5. 32. 030 Term of license 5. 22. 030
Rights reserved to city 5. 32. 090 Violation, penalties 5. 22. 090
Term, termination, grounds, effect 5. 32. 060
Transferability, assign ability 5. 32. 130 CESSPOOL
See SEPTIC TANK, CESSPOOL
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
PROPERTY CITY ADVERTISING FUND
Abandonment, removal, required when 5. 32. 260 Established, purpose, use 3. 32. 010
Inspection, examination, scope, authority
5. 32.470 CITY ATTORNEY AND CITY
Relocation, removal, public improvement PROSECUTOR
requirement when 5. 32. 250 Appointment, qualifications 2. 22. 020
Office established 2. 22. 010
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM Powers and duties 2. 22. 030
SERVICE Records 2. 22. 040
Area, provision requirements 5. 32. 290
CITY ENGINEER
Emergency service, requirements 5. 32. 350
Installation, request 5. 32. 300
Duties 2. 30. 020
Local origination, access facilities, channels
Established, qualifications 2. 30. 010
5. 32. 320 Outgoing- receive duplicates 2. 30. 060
Municipal services 5. 32. 330 Ownership of Maps etc 2. 30. 040
Powers 2.
Requirements generally 5. 32. 270
Subscriber, privacy 5. 32. 370 Private Worrkk bby y 2. 30. 070
Subscriber, rights 5. 32. 360 Responsibility for Maps etc. 20. 30. 050
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CLAIMS, DEMANDS AGAINST CITY
SERVICE RATES, CHARGES
See also WARRANTS
Changes, procedure 5. 32. 390
Authority 1. 28. 010
Regulations generally, federal, state preemption
Claim prerequisite to suit 1. 28. 040
when 5. 32. 380
Claims controlled by state and federal law
Standards 5. 32. 400
1. 28. 070
Claims required 1. 28. 020
CABLE TELEVISION
Form of claim 1. 28. 030
Settlement authority 1. 28. 060
See CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM Suit 1. 28. 050
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
SYSTEM CLEANER
CABLE TELEVISION REVIEW
Definitions 10
Equipment, iinnssppeections 5. 36. 030
COMMITTEE Health permit, fee 5. 36. 020
Established, composition, authority generally Report requirements 5. 36. 050
5. 28. 210
CLERK, CITY
CARD ROOMS, GAMBLING See also OFFICERS, CITY
County code provisions adopted 5. 20. 010 Appointment, disciplinary actions, removal
2. 20. 080
CASINO PARTIES Bond requirements 2. 08. 020
Appeal 5. 22. 070
Application, submission and required content COASTER
5. 22. 040 Use prohibited where 10. 28. 030
7 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Procedures for application 2. 18. 070
Qualifications for appointment 2. 18. 060
CODE Removal of members, abandonment of office
See also ORDINANCES 2. 18. 120
Adoption 1. 01. 010 Sole authority to establish & convey powers to
Applicability, language interpretation 1. 04. 030 act 2. 18. 030
Codification authority 1. 10. 030 Terms, appointment; termination; unexpired
Constitutionality 1. 01. 100 terms; and continuation 2. 18. 080
Designated, citation 1. 04. 030
Effect, past actions, obligations 1. 01. 080 COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
Effective date 1. 01. 090 SYSTEM
Ordinances, prior adoption to code See also CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
1. 01. 040 SYSTEM
Reference, amendments 1. 01. 050 Definitions 5. 28. 010
Reference, ordinances 1. 01. 070 Equal opportunity employment, affirmative
Section catch lines, interpretation action plan, regulations 5. 28. 180
1. 04. 070 FCC rules, regulations applicability 5. 28. 070
Severability 1. 04. 100 Records, maps, inspection, scope, authority
Title, chapter, section headings 5. 28. 150
1. 01. 060 Rules, regulations generally 5. 28. 160
Title, citation, reference 1. 01. 020 Street work, failure to perform, effect 5. 28. 110
Tampering, accessing, unlawful, penalty
CODE AMENDMENTS 5. 28. 170
Code references, inclusion 1. 04.050
Notation, filing 1. 04. 090 COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
SYSTEM FRANCHISE
CODE DEFINITIONS Faithful performance bond 5. 28. 130
County code provisions 1. 04. 040 Indemnification of city 5. 28. 140
Designated 1. 04. 020 Interpretation 5. 28. 040
Limitations 5. 28. 050
CODE VIOLATION Nature, scope, extent 5. 28. 020
Nuisance, abatement 1. 16. 020 Payments 5. 28. 120
Penalties, liability unaffected 1. 16. 010 Publication, costs liability 5. 28. 220
Warning, written, contents 1. 12. 010 Term, renewal, termination 5. 28. 030
CODE VIOLATION CITATION COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
Arrest warrant, issuance when 1. 12. 060 SYSTEM PROPERTY
Bail, procedure 1. 12. 040 Inspection, scope, authority 5. 28. 150
Notice to appear in court, contents 1. 12. 020 Location, approval required 5. 28. 080
Promise to appear, procedure 1. 12. 030 Relocation required when 5. 28. 100
Promise to appear, violation, effect 1. 12. 050 Removal, abandonment when, effect
5. 28. 090
COMMISSIONS, BOARDS &
COMMITTEES, GENERAL COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
PROVISIONS & REQUIREMENTS SYSTEM SERVICES
Applicability 2. 18. 010 Complaints, interruptions, reimbursement when
City Manager determines staff assistance 5. 28. 200
2. 18. 100 Rates, charges 5. 28. 160, 5. 28. 190
Compensation, reimbursement expenses Suspension, abandonment, conditions 5. 28. 060
2. 18. 110
Conflict of Interest requirements 2. 18. 050 COMMUNITY BENEFIT DISTRICTS
Discrimination prohibited 2. 18. 020 Assessments Against Real Property 3. 68. 060
Express delegation of authority 2. 18. 040 Authority 3. 68. 010
Organization, rules of procedure 2. 18. 090 Disestablishment 3. 68. 100
8 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Duration 3. 68. 080
Establishment of Districts 3. 68. 030
Incorporation of State Law 3. 68. 040
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL OR
Initiation of Proceedings 3 0
Nonexclusive Procedure 3. 686. 8. 0.0 20 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES BY
Relationship of Assessment to Zoning 3. 68. 050 MINORS AT PARTIES,
Renewal 3. 68. 090 GATHERINGS OR EVENTS
Definitions 9. 32. 020
COMMUNITY SAFETY COMMISSION Penalties 9. 32. 040
Establishment of Commission 2. 62. 020 Prohibition 9. 32. 030
Law Enforcement Advisors to the Commission Purpose and intent 9. 32. 010
2. 62. 040 Reservation of legal options 9. 32. 050
Powers and Duties 2. 62. 030
Purpose 2. 62. 010 COUNCIL, CITY
See also OFFICERS, CITY
CONCRETE BUSINESS VEHICLE SMOKING, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Automobile expenses, reimbursement 2. 12. 020
City manager relationship 2. 12. 190
CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE Compensation 2. 12. 010
Statutory provisions adopted, disclosure
statement requirements 2. 23. 010 COUNCIL MEETINGS, WORKSHOPS
See also SMOKING, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
CONFLICT OF INTEREST Addressing the City Council, recognition and
DISCLOSURE time limits 2. 12. 140
Adoption 2. 32. 010 Addressing the City Council, request to speak
Designated employees 2. 32. 030
2. 12. 130
Exemptions 2. 32. 040
Agenda, contents, preparation 2. 12. 050
Filing requirements 2. 32. 020
Call to order 2. 12. 070
Minutes, preparation 2. 12. 100
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION Minutes, reading 2. 12. 110
DEBRIS RECYCLING
Order and decorum 2. 12. 150
Order of business; scheduling public hearings
Definitions 13. 17. 010 2. 12. 040
Diversion Requirements 13. 17. 020 Ordinances/ Resolutions 2. 12. 240
Submission of Waste Management Plan Presiding officer, designation, powers, duties
13. 17. 030 generally 2. 12. 060
Review of Waste Management Plan 13. 17. 040 Procedural rules 2. 12. 120
Compliance with Waste Management Plan Protests, minutes entry 2. 12. 170
13. 17. 050 Quorum, required, adjournment without
Exemption 13. 17. 060 2. 12. 090
Administrative Penalty 13. 17. 070 Roll call, minutes entry 2. 12. 080
Enforcement 13. 17. 080 Table, approaching, authorization 2. 12. 160
Time, location 2. 12. 030
CONSTRUCTION LICENSE TAX Voting, roll call 2. 12. 180
Definitions 3. 28. 020
Exemptions 3. 28. 050 COUNTY
Imposed, rate 3. 28. 030 See also CODE DEFINITIONS
Payment, due date, refunds 3. 28. 040 Contracts with, purpose, authority 2. 04. 040
Purpose of provisions 3. 28. 010 Officers, employees, authority generally
Use, limitations 3. 28. 060 2. 04. 030
CRIME FREE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING
Crime free multifamily housing 9. 40
9 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Dance floor accessibility 5. 24. 230
CRIME & SUBSTANCE ABUSE Dance partners, provisions, act as, unlawful
PREVENTION COMMISSION 5. 24. 060
Repealed and reenacted as COMMUNITY
Defined 5. 24. 320
SAFETY COMMISSION Intoxicated persons, prohibitions generally
5. 24. 220
CROPS, PLANTS
Minors, prohibited 5. 24. 180
Pest control regulations, county, adopted
Police officer, access authority 5. 24. 110
8. 20. 020
DANCE, NONPROFIT SERVICE
Plant removal regulations, county adopted
8. 20. 030 ORGANIZATION
Quarantine regulations, county, adopted Business license tax 5. 04. 320
8. 20. 010
DANCE, TEENAGE
CROSSWALK See TEENAGE DANCE
See PEDESTRIAN
DAY LABOR EMPLOYMENT
CURFEW Compliance 5. 90. 020
See MINOR Definitions 5. 90. 010
Enforcement and penalties 5. 90. 100
CURFEW, DAYTIME Hiring Day Laborers 5. 90. 030
Daytime loitering by juveniles, on school days
Limitation 5. 90. 090
in public places 9. 34. 020 Maintenance, inspection and display of records
Defined 5. 90. 010
5. 90. 070
Enforcement 9. 34.040
Registration Certificates; Application and
Penalties 9. 34. 050
issuance 5. 90. 040
Responsibility 9. 34. 030
Registration Certificates, Renewal 5. 90. 050
Registration Certificates, Updates 5. 90. 060
Responsible Department 5. 90. 080
D -
DAYTIME CURFEW
DAIRY BUSINESS VEHICLE Daytime loitering by juveniles, on school days
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 in public places 9. 34. 020
Defined 5. 90. 010
DANCE HALL LICENSE Enforcement 9. 34.040
Classes designated 5. 24. 340 Penalties 9. 34. 050
Grant, denial, grounds 5. 24. 090 Responsibility 9. 34. 030
Required 5. 24. 330
Suspension, revocation, grounds 5. 24. 100 DEAD ANIMAL DISPOSAL
See also INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
DANCE HALL, PUBLIC Burial, regulations 6. 12. 060
See also CABARET, DANCE HALL, PUBLIC City authority when, costs liability 6. 12. 050
DANCE HALL LICENSE Collection, transportation business, regulations,
Alcoholic beverages, bottled, restrictions permit required 6. 12. 070
5. 24. 210 Definitions 6. 12. 010
Alcoholic beverages, bringing, prohibited Nuisance when 6. 12. 020
5. 24. 190 Owner duty 6. 12. 030
Alcoholic beverages, permitting, prohibited Property owner, occupant duty 6. 12. 040
5. 24. 200
Boisterous conduct prohibited 5. 24. 360 DEBT COLLECTION
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Annual Report 3. 60. 090
Cleanliness, sanitary conditions 5. 24240 Central Collection Effort 3. 60. 060
Compliance requirements 5. 24. 130 Collection Agency 3. 60. 080
10 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Definitions 3. 60. 020
Effect of Other Provisions 3. 60. 040
Notice of Debt 3. 60. 050 DODGER DISTRIBUTOR
Payment Plans, Discounts, Penalties 3. 60. 070
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Purpose 3. 60. 030
Title 3. 60. 010
DOGS
DEFECATING See also Animals
Defecating, urinating in public 8. 50. 010
Rabies Control
Vicious Dog
DELIVERY BY VEHICLE, Dog License
WHOLESALE
Animal waste removal 6. 06. 050
Applicability of article 6. 06. 010
Business license tax, 5. 04. 330 Denying access 6. 06. 030
Enforcement 6. 07.060
DELIVERY SERVICE BUSINESS Interfering use by law enforcement 6. 06. 040
VEHICLE Running at large 6. 06. 020
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Sale of dogs and cats 6. 10
Unleashed dogs on public property 12. 14. 010
DEMANDS Unleashed dogs on public property
See CLAIMS, DEMANDS AGAINST CITY
enforcement 12. 14. 020
Unleashed dogs on public property penalty
DISASTER COUNCIL
12. 14. 030
Created, composition 2. 64. 030
DOG LICENSE
Powers, duties generally 2. 64. 040
Application 6. 07. 030
DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL
Enforcement 6. 07.060
WASTES
Fee, due date, exemption, penalty 6. 07. 020
Issuance, tags 6. 07. 040
See Sewers Replacement, tags 6. 07. 050
Establishment of rules and regulations Required 6. 07. 010
14. 10. 010
Issuance of permit 14. 10. 030 DOG, VICIOUS
Notice of intention to disconnect premises Change of ownership 6. 09. 120
14. 10. 050 Continuation of declaration 6. 09. 130
Permit required 14. 10. 020 Definition 6. 09. 010
Violation disconnection/ reconnection Declaration 6. 09. 020
14. 10. 040 Destruction 6. 09. 110
Enforcement 6. 09. 150
DISEASE CONTROL REGULATIONS, Hearing, vicious declaration 6. 09. 040
COUNTY Impound, notification 6. 09. 080
Adopted 8. 08. 010 Impound, immediate 6. 09. 090
Violation, penalty 8. 08. 020 Impound hearing 6. 09. 100
Maintenance, conditions 6. 09. 060
DISPENSARIES Notification 6. 09. 030
See also Marijuana
Restraint 6. 09. 050
Medical Cannabis Dispensaries 5. 94 Severability 6. 09. 140
Dispensing and Delivery of Marijuana 8. 75
DONATIONS
DOCUMENTS Donations of Property; City as Donor 3. 08. 140
Real property, scope, filing fees 2. 04. 080 Donations of Property, City as Recipient
Removal, authorization required 2. 04. 090
3. 08. 140
State, county requirements, filing authority,
designated officials 2. 04. 070 DRAG RACING
Execution of 2. 04. 110 See SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT ILLEGAL
11 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
SPEED CONTESTS OR EXHIBITIONS OF
SPEED
DRY CLEANING BUSINESS VEHICLE
ENTERTAINMENT, TRANSIENT
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Business license tax 5. 04. 330
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
E " COMMISSION
Appointment, qualifications 2. 52. 020
ELECTION Established, authority generally 2. 52. 010
See also MAILED BALLOT ELECTIONS Meetings, procedural rules 2. 52. 050
Date 1. 08. 030 Officers 2. 52. 040
Powers, duties generally 2. 52. 060
ELECTION CANDIDATE Renaming to Beautification & Improvement
Filing fees 1. 08. 010 Commission 2. 52
Qualifications, statement, contents, costs Term, vacancy filing 2. 52. 030
1. 08. 020
EXHIBITION
EMERGENCY See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND
See also DISASTER COUNCIL STREET EVENTS
Activities, expenditures, limitations 2. 64. 090
Definitions 2. 64. 010 F 
Organization
F 
Organization designated, composition 2. 64. 070
Plan, scope, preparation 2. 64. 080
FAIR HOUSING ACTS, REASONABLE
Proclamation, effect, activities when 2. 64. 060
Purpose of provisions 2. 64. 020 ACCOMMODATIONS
Unlawful activities when, penalty 2. 64. 100 Appeal of Determination 18. 86. 060
Applicability 18. 86. 020
EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR Application Requirements 18. 86. 030
Designated, office established 2. 64. 050
Findings and Decision 18. 86. 050
Powers, duties generally 2. 64. 060
Purpose 18. 86. 010
Review Authority and Procedure 18. 86. 040
EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR,
FATS, OILS, AND GREASE 
ASSISTANT
CONTROL AND REGULATION OF
Designated, office established 2. 64. 050
Powers, duties generally 2. 64. 060
See also SEWERS
Best management practices 14. 12. 110
EMPLOYEES, CITY
Definitions 14. 12. 020
See PERSONNEL
Enforcement 14. 12. 040
FOG discharge requirements 14. 12. 030
Gravity grease interceptor design
EMPLOYMENT, DAY LABOR requirements 14. 12. 090
See DAY LABOR EMPLOYMENT Gravity grease interceptor maintenance
requirements 14. 12. 100
ENCINA WATER POLLUTION Inspection and sampling conditions 14. 12. 130
CONTROL FACILITY Monitoring, reporting, record keeping 14. 12. 120
Industrial users, pretreatment regulations Notification of spill 14. 12. 150
adopted 13. 08. 010 Nuisance declared 14. 12. 080
Industrial users, violation, penalty 13. 08. 020 Penalty imposed by regulatory agencies
14. 12. 160
ENERGY CODE Penalties for violation/ enforcement 14. 12. 170
Adoption 16. 26. 010
Pretreatment requirements 14. 12. 060
Prohibitions 14. 12. 050
ENTERTAINMENT
Purpose and intent 14. 12. 010
See CABARET ENTERTAINMENT
Right of inspection 14. 12. 140
12 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Sewer system overflows and cleanup Traffic signals system improvement 10. 64. 010
14. 12. 070
FEES, CHARGES, CITY SERVICES
FEES See also FEES
See also BUSINESS LICENSE TAX Alternative procedure 2. 68. 050
FEES, CHARGES, CITY SERVICES Definitions 2. 68. 020
Alarm system, false alarm fees 8. 44. 070 Effective date for fees 2. 68. 060
Alarm system, generally 8. 44. 140 Notices; public meeting 2. 68. 040
Alarm system, permit fees 8. 44. 040 Procedures 2. 68. 030
Bicycle license 10. 68. 080 Reconsideration 2. 68. 070
Block parties and street events, fees 12. 12. 120 Refunds of Overpayments 5. 04. 290
Booking, collection responsibility 3. 44. 020 Scope and intent 2. 68. 010
Booking, collection by city 3. 44. 050 Supremacy of procedures 2. 68. 080
Booking, execution 3. 44. 020
Booking, purpose 3. 44. 010
Booking, trust account 3. 44.040 FINANCE DIRECTOR
Business license, duplicate 5. 04. 250 See also OFFICERS, CITY
Cabaret license application 5. 24. 090 Acting director, designation 2. 24. 080
Cable communications system franchise Appointment 2. 24. 020
5. 32.410 Bond requirements 2. 24. 050
Cable communications system franchise Compensation 2. 24. 060
application, initial 5. 32. 100 Office established, authority generally 2. 24. 010
Cesspool cleaner permit 5. 36. 020 Powers, duties generally 2. 24. 070
Closing- out sales application 5. 12. 060 Qualifications 2. 24. 030
Dance hall license application 5. 24. 260 Residency, eligibility 2. 24. 040
Dead animal collection, transportation business
permit 6. 12. 070
Election candidate, filing fees 1. 08. 010 FIRE DEPARTMENT
Election candidate, qualifications statement
Established, purpose, composition 2. 36. 010
1. 08. 020
Personnel regulations, applicability 2. 36. 030
Health, sanitation, land use fees, county Powers, duties generally 2. 36. 020
8. 04. 020
Rules, regulations generally 2. 36. 040
Health, sanitation, land use fees, county
8. 04. 020
Ice cream vendor permit 5. 42. 020
FIREARMS
Interstate truck terminal designation, access
See WEAPONS
Massage Establishment 5. 56. 050
Massage Therapist 5. 56. 170
None prescribed, prescribing, authority 2. 04. 060
Parks, recreation facilities use 2. 40. 070 FLIES
Payment, procedure generally 2. 04. 050 See INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
Pool room, billiard room license 5. 72. 020
Real property documents filing 2. 04. 080 FOOD VENDING VEHICLES
Refuse collection 13. 16. 370 Appeals 8. 24. 100
Refuse collection charges, delinquency Applicability to existing businesses 8. 24. 180
Collection 13. 16.420 Conduct prohibited 8. 24. 160
Septic tank, cesspool permit 8. 48. 020 Definitions 8. 24. 030
Sewer collection fees 14. 02. 040 Denial of Permit 8. 24. 080
Sewer improvements reimbursement 13. 04. 030 Enforcement 8. 24. 190
Swap meet, swap lot license application Exemptions 8. 24. 210
investigation, 5. 76. 060 Hours of operation 8. 24. 130
Taxicab permit application petition 5. 80. 110 Insurance 8. 24. 140
Teenage dance permit, application fees Issuance of Permit 8. 24. 070
5. 84. 050 Noise Level 8. 24. 150
Teenage dance permit, renewal fees 5. 84. 080 Operator' s Permit required 8. 24. 060
13 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Penalties 8. 24. 200 REQUIREMENTS
Permit requirement 8. 24. 040 Amendments 2. 33. 090
Posting Regulations 8. 24. 170 Definitions 2. 33. 030
Procedure, operation regulations 8. 24. 020 Prohibition on presenting or receiving gifts from
Revocation of permit 8. 24. 090 parties having an interest in decisions or
Temporary special events permit 8. 24. 110 actions of city 2. 33. 050
Trash removal 8. 24. 120 Prohibition on public officials receiving honoraria
Vendor's permit required 8. 24. 050 2. 33. 060
Prohibition on using official positions to influence
FORFEITED PROPERTY ASSETS government decisions 2. 33. 080
PROGRAM Purpose and Intent 2. 33. 010
Accounting, reporting procedures 3. 40. 040 Restrictions on former public officials accepting
Established, purpose, applicability, statutory
employment 2. 33. 080
authority 3. 40. 010 Restrictions on public officials accepting gifts
Moneys, disposition, use 3. 40. 020 2. 33. 040
Property, assets, title, proceeds use 3. 40. 030 Rules of construction; severability 2. 33. 100
Short title 2. 33. 020
FORTUNETELLING
Compliance requirements 5. 40. 010 GRAFFITI
Access, implements by minors 8. 38. 060
FUNERAL PROCESSION Definitions 8. 83. 020
See TRAFFIC
Detection provisions 8. 38. 050
Parental involvement provisions 8. 38. 090
Penalties 8. 38. 040
G - Prevention requirements 8. 38. 080
Prohibitions 8. 38. 030
GAMBLING Purpose and intent 8. 38. 010
See CARD ROOMS, GAMBLING Removal 8. 38. 070
POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM Severability 8. 38. 100
GARAGE SALES H -
Announcement
H -
Announcement 9. 06. 050
Definitions 9. 06. 010 HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION
Hours, length, frequency 9. 06. 030
Exempt activities designated 9. 04. 060
Inspection, site 9. 060. 070
Littering, prohibitions 9. 04. 040
Location, display 9. 06. 050
Methods designated 9. 04. 050
Property, sale or display 9. 06. 040
Regulation 9. 06. 020
Prohibited, posted, noticed private property Violations, penalty 9. 06. 080
9. 04. 030
GARBAGE
Purpose, intent of provisions 9. 04. 010
Restrictions generally 9. 04.020
See REFUSE
GAS PRICE ADVERTISING SIGN
HANDBILL DISTRIBUTOR
Business License tax 5. 04. 320
Required when, requirements generally
5. 44. 010 HAWKER
Sale by liters, requirements when 5. 44. 020
See SOLICITOR
Sign regulations, compliance 5. 44. 040
Statutory provisions, consistency 5. 44. 030
HEALTH REGULATIONS, COUNTY
GASOLINE SALES
See also Specific Subject
Business sanitation, designated, adopted
Business license tax 5. 04.400
8. 04. 010
GOOD GOVERNMENT
Health, sanitation, land use fees, adopted
8. 04. 020
14 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Health, sanitation, land use fees, nonpayment,
penalties 8. 04. 030
Violation, penalty 8. 04. 040
HOTEL, LODGING HOUSE GUEST INTERSTATE TRUCK TERMINAL
REGISTRATION DESIGNATION, ACCESS
Departure time inclusion 5. 48. 050 See also TRUCK ROUTES
Register, maintenance, inspection 5. 48. 040 Appeals 10. 60. 070
Required, requirements generally 5. 48. 030 Application procedure, fees 10. 60. 030
Vehicle, guest, required 5. 48. 060 Costs, recovery 10. 60. 050
Deficiencies, retrofitting, costs liability 10. 60. 080
HOTEL, ROOMING HOUSE Definitions 10. 60. 040
County provisions adopted 5. 48. 010 Purpose, intent, generally 10. 60. 010
Minor, room rental, policy notification when
5. 48. 020 ITINERANT MERCHANT
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
I -
ITINERANT VENDOR
ICE SUPPLY BUSINESS, RETAIL, Business license tax 5. 04. 330
VEHICLE
Business license tax 5. 04. 330
J
ICE CREAM BUSINESS VEHICLE JOBBER
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Business license tax 5. 04. 310
Vending/ Parking Restrictions 5. 52. 030
JUNK
ICE CREAM VENDOR See also WRECKING YARD, JUNKYARD
See SOLICITOR Accumulation, nuisance when, abatement
Definitions 5. 52. 010 8. 28. 030
Enforcement 5. 52.060 Accumulation, prohibited when, exceptions
Parking of Ice Cream Trucks 5. 52. 030 8. 28. 020
Permit required, procedure, fee 5. 52. 020 Definitions 8. 28. 010
Rider, unauthorized, prohibited 5. 52. 040 Storage permitted when, regulations 8. 28. 040
Vehicle condition 5. 52. 050 Violation, complaint, notice, penalty 8. 28. 050
Vending, regulations 5. 52. 030
L 
INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
Conflicting provisions, resolution 8. 40. 110 LAND DEVELOPMENT
Dead animal, other material, fly-tight container
See TRAFFIC SIGNALS SYSTEM
required 8. 40. 040
IMPROVEMENT FEES
Fly breeding, places deemed nuisance 8. 04. 090
Fly breeding, poultry areas, prevention LAUNDRY BUSINESS VEHICLE
measures 8. 40. 100
Mosquitoes, breeding places deemed nuisance
Business license tax 5. 04. 330
Premises inspection, authority 8. 40. 050
Provisions deemed additional 8. 40. 060 LEASE- REVENUE SPECIAL FUNDS
Purpose of provisions 8. 40. 010 Establishment and maintenance of lease-
Refuse, excrement, manure removal, required revenue special funds 3. 64. 010
time limits 8. 40. 020
Vermin breeding places, prevention, methods LETTERHEAD, CITY
8. 40. 070 Description 1. 20. 030
Violation, penalty 8. 40. 120 Use 1. 20. 040
Violation, unlawful 8. 40. 010
LICENSE
See also BUSINESS LICENSE
15 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
PERMIT Violation 8. 66. 040
Bargain Basement Stores, License Requirement
5. 92. 020
Bicycle 10. 68. 020
M _
Bingo 5. 16. 030
Cable communications system construction
5. 32. 190 MAILED BALLOT ELECTIONS
Closing- out sale 5. 12. 060 Enabling authority 1. 10. 050
Dance hall, public 5. 24. 240 Mailed Ballot Elections 1. 10. 010
Massage Establishment Permit Required Matters approved for mailed ballot elections or
5. 56. 040 proceedings 1. 10. 020
Massage Therapists Permit Required Procedures for conducting mailed ballot
5. 56. 160 elections or proceedings 1. 10. 040
Pool room, billiard room 5. 72. 010 Time for conducting a mailed ballot election or
Solicitor 5. 64. 030 an assessment ballot proceeding 1. 10. 030
Swap meet, swap lot 5. 76. 040
MANAGER, CITY
LINEN SERVICE BUSINESS VEHICLE See also OFFICERS, CITY
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 Administrative, enforcement powers 2. 20. 020
Compensation, expenses reimbursement
LITTERING 2. 20. 070
See HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION Council relationship 2. 12. 190
Eligibility, bond, acting manager designation
LIVESTOCK 2. 20. 050
See ANIMALS
Office established 2. 20. 010
Powers, duties, additional 2. 20. 040
LOADING ZONES Powers, duties, generally 2. 20. 030
Removal, conditions, procedure 2. 20. 060
Alley, use restrictions 10. 40. 060
Bus zones, establishment, location 10. 40. 070
Vesting Authority to Appoint City Clerk 2. 20.080
Curb markings, explanation 10. 40. 020
MANUFACTURER
Establishment, location, authority 10. 40. 010
Passenger, use restrictions 10. 40. 050
Business license tax 5. 04. 310
Permission, scope 10. 40. 030
Use, restrictions generally 10. 40. 040 MARIJUANA
Also see dispensaries
LOITERING Medical Cannabis Dispensaries 5. 94
See PROPERTY, TEENAGE DANCE Mobile dispensing and delivery of marijuana
8. 75
LOITERING, ATM MACHINES Prohibition on licensing 5. 04. 145
Definitions 9. 30. 020
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND
Penalties 9. 30. 060
Posting 9. 30. 070 MASSAGE THERAPISTS
Prohibitions 9. 30. 050
Purpose 9. 30. 010 Advertisement 5. 56. 240
Severability 9. 30. 090 Appeal Hearings, Burden of Proof 5. 56. 280
Short title 9. 30. 020 Applicability of Massage Establishment and
Standards, law enforcement 9. 30. 080 Massage Therapist Regulations on Existing
Business 5. 56. 220
LOITERING, DRUG- RELATED Definitions 5. 56. 030
PURPOSES
Enforcement 5. 56.300
Inspections, Massage Establishment 5. 56. 130
Acts prohibited 8. 66. 010
Massage Establishment Change of Location or
Circumstances 8. 66. 030
Name; Separate Location 5. 56. 150
Definitions 20
Massage Establishment Facilities 5. 56. 100
Enforcementt 88. 66.6.050
Massage Establishment Operating
16 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Requirements 5. 56. 090 Violation, additional remedies 8. 52. 030
Massage Establishment Permit Application Violation, penalty 8. 52. 020
5. 56. 070
Massage Establishment Permit Application Fee
5. 56. 050
Massage Establishment Permit Denial and MINOR
Appeal 5. 56. 080 See also POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM
Massage Establishment Permit Required; SPRAY PAINT CAN WEAPONS
Exemptions 5. 56. 040 See also CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL OR
Massage Therapist Permit Applications 5. 56. 180 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES BY
Massage Therapist Permit Application Fee MINORS AT PARTIES,
5. 56. 170 GATHERINGS OR EVENTS, See Also
Massage Therapist Permit Required 5. 56. 160 DAYTIME CURFEW
Massage Therapist Permitted Activities 5. 56. 190 Curfew, designated, applicability 9. 08. 010
Notification by Massage Establishment of Curfew, Daytime 9. 34
Employed Massage Therapists 5. 56. 210 Restriction, vending machine location 8. 16. 030
Number of Massage Establishments 5. 56. 060 Tobacco possession, prohibited 8. 16. 010
Off-Premises Massage 5. 56. 120 Tobacco vending machine, definition 8. 16. 020
Permits Not Assignable 5. 56. 140 Violation, penalty 8. 16. 040
Permit Revocation Appeal Procedures 5. 56. 260 Unattended, prohibited when 9. 08. 020
Permit Denial or Revocation Appeals
Procedures 5. 56. 270 MOBILE HOME PARK
Purpose 5. 56. 020
See also TRAILER PARK
Renewal of Massage Establishment and Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Massage Therapist Permits 5. 56. 200
Revocation of Massage Establishment or
MOBILE HOME PARK REVIEW
Massage Therapist Permit 5. 56. 250
Seated Massage 5. 56. 110 BOARD
Severability 5. 56. 310 Establishment, appointment 2. 76. 020
Unlawful Conduct 5. 56. 230 Purpose 2. 76. 010
Violation and Penalty 5. 56. 290 Termination 2. 75. 060
MASSAGE LICENSE MOSQUITOES
See INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
See MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND
MASSAGE THERAPISTS (Chapter 5.56) MOTEL
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
MASSAGE TECHNICIAN
See MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT AND MOTOR COURT
MASSAGE THERAPISTS (Chapter 5.56) See HOTEL, LODGINGHOUSE
MAYOR MOTOR VEHICLES, FORFEITURE
Term of office 2. 16. 010 Abatement, cause 9. 24. 0030
Vehicle impoundment 9. 24. 020
MAYOR PRO TEMPORE Violation 9. 24. 010
Election, duties generally 2. 16. 020
MUSICAL PERFORMANCE
MEAT DISTRIBUTOR BUSINESS Business license tax 5. 04. 320
VEHICLE
Business license tax 5. 04. 330 N -
MEDICAL WASTES STORAGE, NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY
DISPOSAL See PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES
County regulations adopted 8. 52. 010
17 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
NOISE CONTROL MAINTENANCE
See also PARTIES, LOUD Alternative procedure 8. 36. 200
County regulations adopted 8. 32. 040 Alternative remedies 8. 36. 180
Alternative procedure 8. 36. 200
NOISE CONTROL VIOLATIONS Assessment of costs against property- lien
Penalties generally 8. 32. 050 8. 36. 170
Prima facie, designated 8. 32. 010 Decision of City Council 8. 36. 120
Prima facie, enforcement authority 8. 32. 020 Declaration of nuisance 8. 36. 070
Enforcement 8. 36.060
NOTICES Exemptions 8. 36. 050
See also Specific Subject Form of notice of hearing 8. 36. 080
Service, procedure, proof 2. 04. 100
Form of proper service of notice 8. 36. 100
Hearing by City Council 8. 36. 110
NOVELTY LIGHTERS, PROHIBIT Limitation of filing judicial action 8. 36. 130
RETAIL SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF
Nuisance violation- penalty 8. 36. 190
Posting and service of notice 8. 363. 6. 0.090
Definitions 8. 74. 010 Prohibited conduct 8. 36. 030
Enforcement 8. 74.040 Purpose and intent 8. 36. 010
Exceptions 8. 74. 030 Record of cost for abatement 8. 36. 150
Prohibition 8. 74. 020 Report- hearing and proceedings 8. 36. 160
Violation and Penalties 8. 74. 050 Scope 8. 36. 020
Service of resolution to abate 8. 36. 140
Specific conditions constituting public nuisance
NUDE ENTERTAINMENT and unlawful condition 8. 36. 040
See ADULTORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 9. 12
NUISANCE
OFFICERS, CITY
See also PARTIES, LOUD
NUISANCE ABATEMENT
See also Specific Officer
Abandoned vehicle, 10. 56. 010
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Animal, dead, when 6. 12. 020
Administrative provisions violation, effect
Prima facie, penalties 8. 32. 030
2. 08. 050
Remedies, additional 8. 32. 060 Authority, power delegation 2. 08. 040
Applicability of provisions 8. 36. 020
Salaries, compensation 2. 08. 010
Bee provisions violation 6. 16. 070
Code violations 1. 16. 020 OFFICES, CITY
Conditions constituting public nuisance and Hours 2. 04. 010
unlawful condition 8. 36. 040 Location 2. 04. 020
Declaration 8. 36. 070
Exemptions 8. 36. 050 ORDINANCES
Fly breeding place 8. 40. 090 Existing, continuance when 1. 04. 060
Junk accumulation 8. 28. 030 Repeal, effect 1. 04. 060
Massage provisions violation 5. 56. 180
Mosquito breeding place 8. 40. 080 OVERSIZE VEHICLES
Property maintenance conditions, designated Nuisance 8. 36. 040
8. 36. 030 Parking 10. 32. 055
Purpose and intent 8. 36. 010 Parking Permit 10. 34. 010
Scope 8. 36. 040
Violations 8. 36. 060.0
P _
Violation, penalty 8. 36. 190
Waste matter, when 8. 60. 030
Weeds, grasses, when 8. 60. 020 PAMPHLET DISTRIBUTOR
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
NUISANCE ABATEMENT, PROPERTY
18 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
PANHANDLING, AGGRESSIVE Parking, regulations generally 12. 08. 010
Definitions 9. 26. 020 Parking, time limits 12. 08. 020
Enforcement 9. 26.030 Park Event Permit 12. 13. 070
Prohibited 9. 26. 010 Rules, regulations, designated 12. 08. 010
PARADE, SPECIAL EVENT Rules, regulations, exempt activities designated
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND
12. 08. 050
STREET EVENTS Rules, regulations, posting 12. 08. 040
Toilet facilities, use restrictions 12. 08. 030
PARKING
PARKS, RECREATION COMMISSION
See also LOADING ZONES
PARKS, RECREATION AREAS
See also OFFICERS, CITY
REFUSE TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE
Established, composition, additional
qualifications
Applicability of provisions 10. 32. 010
44. 060
20
Powers and duttiesies 22.
City property, regulations 10. 36. 090
Commercial purposes, regulations, permit
Purpose 2. 44. 010
requirements 130
Diagonal, requiredred where 10. 36. 050 PARKS RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Display for sale, prohibited 10. 32. 060 Established 2. 40. 010
Emergency prohibitions when, procedure Powers, duties generally 2. 40. 020
10. 32. 140
Grade, on, procedure 10. 32. 120 PARKS, RECREATION DIRECTOR
Ice Cream Truck Restrictions 5. 52. 030 See also OFFICERS, CITY
Narrow street, prohibitions 10. 32. 110 Appointment, authority generally 2. 40. 030
No stopping zones, establishment, obedience Powers, duties generally 2. 40. 040
10. 36. 070
No- stopping, no- parking zones, establishment, PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES
marking 10. 32. 030 See also PARKS, RECREATION AREAS
One hour limit, designated areas 10. 36. 020 Activities, events, regulations 2. 40. 060
One-way streets, parallel, required 10. 36. 040 Hours, fees, use regulations 2. 40. 070
Oversize Vehicles, recreation vehicles, nuisance National Guard Armory, area, regulations
8. 36. 040 2. 40. 080
Oversize & non- motorized vehicle parking Structures, buildings, construction, use 2. 40. 090
10. 32. 055
Oversize, recreational vehicle parking permit PARKS, RECREATION FUND
10. 34. 010
Established 2. 40. 050
Parking time limits, 12. 08. 020
Parkway, prohibited 10. 32. 020
PARTIES, LOUD
Private or public property, regulations 10. 36. 100
Prohibited areas, permitted when, temporary, Confidentiality . 50
Definitions 8. 64020
permit 10. 32. 050
020
Prohibitions, generally 10. 32. 040
First Response 8. 64. 030
Prohibitions, overnight, overtime, oversize
Purpose 10
vehicles 10. 32. 150
Subsequeentnt Responses 8. 64. 040
School, adjacent, prohibitions 10. 32. 100
Sleeping in parked car, 9. 20. 020 PASSENGER LOADING ZONES
Spaces, marking, obedience 10. 36. 060 See LOADING ZONES
Two hour limit, designated areas 10. 36. 030
Twenty-four minute limit, designated areas PAWNBROKER, SECONDHAND
DEALER
PARKS, RECREATION Bank, exemptions 5. 60. 020
Budget, scope 2. 40. 050 Definitions 5. 60. 010
Hours, restrictions 5. 60. 080
Recordkeeping, money lenders 5. 60. 060
PARKS, RECREATION AREA USE Recordkeeping, requirements generally
See also PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES 5. 60. 040
19 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Reports, confidentiality 5. 60. 070 2. 72. 010
Residency requirements 5. 60. 030
Transactions, report requirements 5. 60. 050
PEDDLER PERSONNEL COMPETITIVE
See also SOLICITOR SERVICE
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 See also PERSONNEL
Appointments, regulations generally 2. 72. 090
PEDESTRIAN Position abolition, procedure, regulations when
Coaster, roller skates, similar devices prohibited 2. 72. 120
10. 28. 030 Probationary period, regulations 2. 72. 100
Crosswalk, establishment, location 10. 28.010 Suspension, conditions 2. 27. 110
Street, highway, use restrictions, regulations
10. 28. 020 PERSONNEL EXEMPT POSITIONS
See also PERSONNEL
PERMIT Designated 2. 72. 030
See also BUSINESS LICENSE Personnel rules applicability 2. 72. 050
LICENSE
Alarm system 8. 44. 040 PERSONNEL OFFICER
Bargain Basement Stores, License Requirement See also OFFICERS, CITY
5. 92. 020 Designation, powers, duties generally 2. 72. 020
Block parties and street events, fees 12. 12. 060
Cabaret, dance hall employee 5. 24.040, PEST
5. 24. 070
See INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
Cable communications system construction
5. 32. 190
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS HOME
Cesspool cleaner 5. 36. 020
Dead animal collection, transportation business DELIVERY BUSINESS VEHICLE
6. 12. 070 Business license tax 5. 04. 330
Food vending vehicle 8. 24. 010
Heavy vehicle, machinery, moving on street PLANNING COMMISSION
10. 44. 030 See also OFFICERS, CITY
Ice cream vendor 5. 52. 020 Compensation 2. 48. 050
Park Events 12. 13. 070 Establishment, composition, additional
Parking, commercial purpose 10. 32. 130 qualifications 2. 48. 020
Parking, prohibited area, temporary permission Powers, duties 2. 48. 080
10. 32. 150 Purpose 2. 48. 010
Septic tank, cesspool 8. 48. 020 Secretary 2. 48. 060
Show permit 5. 68. 030 Term, removal 2. 48. 040
Taxicab 5. 80. 080
Teenage dance 5. 84. 030 PLANTS
Tree, shrub pruning, trimming 12. 04. 020
See CROPS, PLANTS
PERSONNEL POOL ROOM
See also CONFLICT OF INTEREST
See also POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM
Administrative provisions violation, effect
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
2. 08. 050
Appointing authority designated, authority POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM
generally 2. 72. 080
Discrimination prohibited 2. 72. 130
See also BILLIARD ROOM, POOL ROOM
Funding, appropriations 2. 72. 070 Gambling prohibited 5. 72. 060
Rules adopted, contents 2. 72. 040 Games payment, decision by result, permitted
Salaries, compensation 2. 08. 010
5. 72. 070
Special services, contracts, authority 2. 72. 060 Intoxicating liquors prohibited 5. 72. 040
System designated, adopted, purpose
Minors, prohibited when, exceptions 5. 72. 050
20 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
PUBLIC PROPERTY
Prohibited uses designated 9. 20. 020
POOL ROOM, BILLIARD ROOM PURCHASING
LICENSE Award and Execution of Contracts 3. 08. 090
Application, issuance procedures, fees, Bidders Security 3. 08. 110
5. 72. 020 Bidding Procedure, Alternative 3. 08. 060
Required 5. 72. 010 Bidding Procedure, Formal 3. 08. 040
Retention 8. 30. 040 Bidding Procedure, Informal 3. 08. 050
Revocation, grounds 5. 72. 030 Calculation of Dollar Amounts 3. 08. 120
City Disposition of Surplus Equipment and
POSTER DISTRIBUTOR Supplies 3. 08. 130
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Compliance required 3. 08. 010
Definitions 3. 08. 020
PROPERTY Design- build contracts 3. 08. 075
See also Specific Subject
Donations 3. 08. 140
Open to public, loitering, trespassing prohibited
Exemptions Certain Supplies, Services and
9. 20. 030
Equipment 3. 08. 150
Labor Code Compliance, City 3. 08. 160
PROPERTY OWNERS'
Modifications of Awarded Contracts 3. 08. 100
DELINQUENCIES FOR REFUSE
Negotiation, Post- Bid 3. 08. 070
Purchase Order/ Requisition Process 3. 08. 080
COLLECTION SERVICE ACCOUNT Purchasing Officer 3. 08. 030
Created, purpose, use 13. 16. 420
PURCHASING BID PROCEDURE
PROPERTY PRIVATE See also PURCHASING
See also HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION Bidder's security, requirements 3. 08. 110
Motor vehicle, driving on, prohibitions, Bids, Formal 3. 08. 040
exceptions 9. 20. 040 Bids, Informal 3. 08. 050
Bids, Alternative 3. 08. 060
PROPERTY, UNCLAIMED Bids, Post Bid Negotiations 3. 08. 070
Care and storage 8. 30. 030
City personnel prohibited 8. 30. 060 PURCHASING OFFICER
Definitions 8. 30. 020 See also OFFICERS, CITY
Disposition, unclaimed property 8. 30.050 Office created, appointment 3. 08. 030
Purpose 8. 30. 010 Powers, duties generally 3. 08. 030
PROSTITUTION R -
See
R -
See MOTOR VEHICLES, FORFEITURE
RABIES CONTROL
PUBLIC DECENCY Certificate of vaccination 6. 08. 060
Public decency 9. 10. 010 Confinement, suspect, release cleared dog
6. 08. 020
PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION Enforcement 6. 08.080
Establishment, composition 2. 46. 020 Exemption from vaccination during illness
Powers and Duties 2. 46. 070 6. 08. 070
Purpose 2. 46. 010 Muzzling, vaccinations 6. 08. 040
Staff Assistance 2. 46. 080 Right of entry, examination 6. 08. 030
Seizure, examination, extermination 6. 08. 010
PUBLIC PROJECT CONTRACTS Vaccination required 6. 08. 050
Chapter 3. 48 Standards for Public Works
Construction - repealed by Ord. No. 2007- 9 RAILWAY CROSSING GATE
21 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Barrier, crossing prohibited when 10. 48. 010 Burying, permitted when, regulations 13. 16. 030
Train, blocking, restrictions 10. 48. 020 Cleanup activities, special 13. 16. 330
Definitions 13. 16. 020
Disposal, regulations generally 13. 16. 310
Purpose, intent of provisions 13. 16. 010
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX REFUSE COLLECTION
EXEMPTIONS Compliance requirements generally 13. 16. 350
Instruments securing debts 3. 16. 040 Frequency, scheduling 13. 16. 070
Instruments taken in lieu of foreclosure Hazardous, dangerous materials procedure
3. 16. 050 generally 13. 16. 140
Marital property 3. 16. 060 Hazardous, dangerous materials, prohibitions
Nonprofit corporations, when 3. 16. 080 13. 16. 190
Partnerships 3. 16. 110 Hazardous, dangerous materials, regulations
Public agency documents 3. 16. 090 generally 13. 16. 110
Reconveyances, when 3. 16. 070 Infectious medical wastes, procedure generally
Reorganization, adjustment plan 3. 16. 100 13. 16. 140
Securities and Exchange Commission orders Infectious medical wastes, prohibitions
3. 16. 120 13. 16. 190
Infectious medical wastes, regulations generally
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS 13. 16. 110
UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING ACTS Mandatory, applicability 13. 16. 060
Appeal of Determination 18. 86. 060
Mandatory, exemptions, procedure 13. 16. 090
Applicability 18. 86. 020
Parks, playgrounds, city government buildings,
Application Requirements 18. 86. 030
requirements 13. 16. 320
Rules, regulations, generally 13. 16. 110
Findings and Decision 18. 86. 050
Rules, regulations, promulgation, scope,
Purpose 18. 86. 010
authority 13. 16. 460 Review Authority and Procedure 18. 86. 040
Special collection and disposal 13. 16. 420
RECREATION
Special methods when 13. 16. 140
Special services, scheduling, payments
See PARKS, RECREATION 13. 16. 080
PARKS, RECREATION AREAS Spillage, cleanup requirements 13. 16. 300
PARKS, RECREATION FACILITIES Spilling prohibitions 13. 16. 220
RECYCLABLES
Collection, restrictions 13. 16. 110
REFUSE COLLECTION CHARGES
RECYCLING, CONSTRUCTION AND Applicability, establishment 13. 15. 370
DEMOLITION DEBRIS Basis 13. 16. 380
Definitions 13. 17. 010 Controversies, settlement, authority 13. 16. 440
Diversion Requirements 13. 17. 020 Delinquency, determination, collection
Submission of Waste Management Plan assignment 13. 16. 410
13. 17. 030 Exemption, economic hardship, procedure
Review of Waste Management Plan 13. 17. 040 13. 16. 100
Compliance with Waste Management Plan Nonpayment, service continuation when
13. 17. 050 13. 16. 360
Exemption 13. 17. 060 Payment, liability 13. 16. 390
Administrative Penalty 13. 17. 070 Payment, procedure generally 13. 16. 400
Enforcement 13. 17. 080
REFUSE COLLECTION CONTRACT
REFUSE Administration, scope, authority 13. 16. 430
See also WEEDS, RUBBISH Assignment, transferability 13. 16. 290
Accumulations, unsafe, offensive, prohibited Bond requirements 13. 16. 250
13. 16. 200 Compliance requirements generally 13. 16. 350
Burning, prohibitions, exceptions 13. 16. 050 Conformance, franchise agreement effect
22 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
13. 16. 240 Definitions 8. 74. 010
Indemnification of city 13. 16. 260 Enforcement 8. 74.040
Letting, procedure generally 13. 16. 270 Exceptions 8. 74. 030
Termination, grounds, reletting when 13. 16. 280 Prohibition 8. 74. 020
Violation and Penalties 8. 74. 050
REFUSE COLLECTION FRANCHISE ROAD MIX BUSINESS VEHICLE
See REFUSE COLLECTION CONTRACT Business license tax 5. 04. 330
REFUSE COLLECTION SUBSIDIES ROCK BUSINESS VEHICLE
ACCOUNT Business license tax 5. 04. 330
Created, purpose, use 13. 16. 100
ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS,
REFUSE COLLECTION VIOLATIONS ROLLER-BLADES, SCOOTERS
Bail schedule 13. 16. 500 Use prohibited where 10. 28. 030
Infraction when 13. 16. 210 Protective Headgear required 10. 69. 060
Misdemeanor when 13. 16. 150
Specifications, generally 13. 16. 120 ROOMINGHOUSE
Specifications, volume, weight limits 13. 16. 130
See HOTEL, ROOMINGHOUSE
REFUSE CONTAINER RUBBISH
Hazardous, infectious wastes, prohibitions See REFUSE
13. 16. 190
WEEDS, RUBBISH
Interference, prohibited 13. 16. 210
Placement, location for collection 13. 16. 150
Refuse containers, type and construction S _
13. 16. 120
Refuse, refuse containers, volume/weight SALES, USE TAX
limitations 13. 16. 130 Administration, contract with state 3. 20. 050
Applicability, sales tax 3. 20. 060
REFUSE TRANSPORTATION Applicability, use tax 3. 20. 080
Unlawful when 13. 16. 180 Collection enjoinment prohibited 3. 20. 140
Exclusions, exemptions 3. 20. 120
REFUSE TRANSPORTATION Imposed, rate 3. 20. 020
VEHICLE Operative date of provisions 3. 20. 030
Covering required when 13. 16. 170
Place of sale, determination 3. 20. 070
Motor vehicle code, state, compliance Purpose, statutory authority of provisions
13. 16. 340
3. 20. 040
Parking, time limits 13. 16. 230
Seller's permit, additional not required when
Regulation, approval, authority 13. 16.450
3. 20. 110
Requirements generally 13. 16. 160
State provisions, adoption 3. 20. 090
State provisions, amendments, applicability
RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SALES
3. 20. 130
AND SERVICE  ALCOHOLIC
State provisions, limitations 3. 20. 100
Title of provisions 3. 20. 010
BEVERAGES Violation, penalty 3. 20. 150
Definitions 5. 10. 010 SAND BUSINESS VEHICLE
Responsible Beverage Service Training Business license tax 5. 04. 330
Required Proof 5. 10. 020
Violation- Penalty 5. 10. 030
SEAL, CITY
RETAIL SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF Description 1. 20. 010
NOVELTY LIGHTERS, PROHIBITION
Use, restrictions 1. 20. 020
OF
23 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
SECONDHAND DEALER Waiver of excess usage charge 14. 06. 070
See PAWNBROKER, SECONDHAND DEALER
SEWERCONTROL AND REGULATION
SECURITY ALARMS OF FATS, OILS, AND GREASE
See ALARM SYSTEMS Best management practices 14. 12. 110
SENIOR CITIZENS AFFAIRS Definitions 14. 12. 020
COMMISSION Enforcement 14. 12. 040
Absence, removal when 2. 56. 050
FOG discharge requirements 14. 12. 030
Appointment, liaison 2. 56. 040 Gravity grease interceptor design
Established, appointment, composition 2. 56.020
requirements 14. 12. 090
Funding, staff assistance 2. 56. 080 Gravity grease interceptor maintenance
Organization, meetings 2. 56. 060
requirements 14. 12. 100
Powers, duties generally 2. 56. 070 Inspection and sampling conditions 14. 12. 130
Purpose 2. 56. 010 Monitoring, reporting, record keeping 14. 12. 120
Term of office 2. 56. 030
Notification of spill 14. 12. 150
Nuisance declared 14. 12. 080
SEPTIC TANK, CESSPOOL Penalty imposed by regulatory agencies
See also CESSPOOL CLEANER
14. 12. 160
Penalties for violation/ enforcement 14. 12. 170
County regulations adopted 8. 48. 010
Pretreatment requirements 14. 12. 060
Health permit, fees 8. 48. 020
Prohibitions 14. 12. 050
Purpose and intent 14. 12. 010
SEPTIC TANK SYSTEMS Right of inspection 14. 12. 140
Application procedures existing lots 14. 16. 040 Sewer system overflows and cleanup
Authority to adopt by resolution 14. 16. 050 14. 12. 070
Connection to public sewer system 14. 16. 030
General restrictions 14. 16. 010 SEWER  DISCHARGE OF
Requirements for 14. 16. 020 INDUSTRIAL WASTES
Establishment of rules and regulations
SERVICES, CITY 14. 10. 010
See Specific Subject Issuance of permit 14. 10. 030
FEES, CHARGES, CITY SERVICES Notice of intention to disconnect premises
14. 10. 050
SEWER Permit required 14. 10. 020
See also ENCINA WATER POLLUTION Violation disconnection/ reconnection
CONTROL FACILITY 14. 10. 040
SEWER CAPACITY CHARGE SEWER LATERALS, PRIVATE
Adjustment of excess usage charge 14. 06. 050 Application within City 14. 14. 030
Amount of excess usage charge 14. 06. 060 Definitions 14. 14. 020
Collection of sewer excess usage charges with Enforcement and remedies 14. 14. 080
Taxes 14. 06. 100 Notice and required corrections 14. 14. 060
Election to have excess usage charge collected Property owner responsibility 14. 14. 040
with taxes 14. 06. 090 Purpose and intent 14. 14. 010
Equivalent dwelling units 14. 06. 110 Repair and replacement 14. 14. 070
Establishment of 14. 06. 010 Standard of maintenance 14. 14. 050
Excess usage charge 14. 06. 040
Initial sewer capacity charge 14. 06. 030 SEWER MAINS, EXTENSION AND
Other users of EDUs 14. 06. 130 ENLARGEMENT
Purchase of additional capacity 14. 06. 060 Application for extension 14. 08. 010
Rates, adjustment, and review 14. 06. 020 Construction options 14. 08. 030
Residential equivalent dwelling units sewer Cost estimate 14. 08. 020
Capacity 14. 06. 120 Design and construction of 14. 08. 040
Reuse of old wastewater permit 14. 06. 080 Reimbursement for constructing excess
24 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Sewer facilities 14. 08. 050 12. 20. 150
Encroachments 12. 20. 100
Government-owned signs on city property
12. 20. 130
Government speech on signs; legally authorized
SEWER  MUNICIPAL SEWER signs 12. 20. 140
SERVICE CHARGES AND RATES Immediate removal of signs on city property
Adjustments and proration 14. 04. 060 12. 20. 160
Adoption of variable rates or fixed charges Message substitution 12. 20. 040
14. 04. 020 Mobile billboards prohibited 12. 20. 110
Lifeline allowance rebate program 14. 04. 080 Portable signs in certain areas 12. 20. 060
Method of collection 14. 04. 030 Private party signs prohibited unless specifically
Payment due date; delinquency 14. 04. 030 allowed 12. 20. 030
Penalties and interest on delinquent payments Proprietary capacity; authority; intent as to public
14. 04. 070 Forum 12. 20. 020
Service charges constitute lien on property Signage on vehicles non- permitted excess
14. 04. 050 signage 12. 20. 120
Sewer service charge; uses 14. 04. 010 Signs furthering sports field use 12. 20. 090
Temporary signs displaying noncommercial
SEWERS AND SEWER SYSTEMS messages 12. 20. 050
Administration; Enforcement 14. 01. 040 Temporary signs during election periods
Authority 14. 01. 020
12. 20. 080
Capital repairs and replacement fund;
Emergency expansion reserve account SKATEBOARD
14. 01. 060 Interference with pedestrian and traffic
Capital expansion fund 14. 01. 070 10. 69. 050
Definitions 14. 01. 030 Posted private property 10. 69. 020
Disconnection authorized 14. 01. 090 Posted public property 10. 69. 040
Inspection and testing 14. 01. 080 Posted school property 10. 69. 030
Penalties for violations; reimbursement of Purpose and Intent, 10. 69. 010
City' s costs 14. 01. 110 Require, helmet, elbow pad, knee pad
Purpose and intent 14. 01. 010 12, 06. 010
Reconnection permit; reimbursement of
Disconnection costs 14. 01. 100 SLEEPING
Revenue Fund & Reserve Accounts 14. 01. 050 Use of public property, 9. 20. 020
SHOPPING CARTS SMOKING, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
Conveyance of shopping carts on public land No- smoking area sign posting, required for
8. 72. 010 enforcement 2. 12. 220
Retrieval and detention of abandoned shopping No- smoking area sign posting, requirements
carts 8. 72. 020 2. 12. 210
Unlawful 2. 12. 200
SHRUBS Violation, penalty 2. 12. 230
See TREES, SHRUBS, PUBLIC PLACES
SMOKING, PUBLIC PLACES
SIDEWALK SALE Compliance request, retaliation prohibited
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND 8. 12. 070
STREET EVENTS Definitions 8. 12. 020
Permitted where 8. 12. 020
SIGNS ON CITY PROPERTY Prohibitions designated 8. 12. 030
Commercial hand held signs in certain areas Prohibitions in City Park 12. 08. 010
12. 20. 070 Prohibitions near Tot Lot 12. 08. 010
Definitions 12. 20. 020 Purpose of provisions 8. 12. 010
Design and construction of city-owned signs Sign posting, requirements 8. 12. 060
25 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Smoking, no- smoking areas, designation, ILLEGAL SPEED CONTESTS OR
regulations, 8. 12. 040 EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED
Violation notice, authority 8. 12. 080
Admissibility of prior act 9. 36. 050
Violation, penalty 8. 12. 090
Definitions 9. 36. 020
SOCIAL HOST
Purpose 9. 36. 010
Relevant circumstances to prove violation
See CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL OR 9. 36. 040
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES BY MINORS Spectator at illegal speed contest or exhibition of
AT PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS speed violation 9. 36. 030
SOLICITOR SPEED LIMITS
See also PEDDLER Decrease, between districts 10. 52. 030
PEDESTRIAN INTERFERENCE Decrease, generally 10. 52. 020
Business license tax 5. 04. 320 Increase, when 10. 52. 010
Definitions 5. 54. 020 Regulation, traffic signal use 10. 52. 040
Exempt activities, persons designated 5. 64. 080
Hours, restrictions 5. 64. 130
SPORTING EVENT
Hours, restrictions 5. 64. 130
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND
Information disclosure requirements 5. 64
STREET EVENTS
Prohibited activities designated 5. 64. 140
Purpose of provisions 5. 64. 010
Violation, penalty 5. 64. 150 SPRAY PAINT CAN
Minor, possession unlawful when 9. 20. 010
SOLICITOR LICENSE,
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
IDENTIFICATION CARD
Agricultural BMP requirements 13. 18. 110
Application, terms, renewal, fees 5. 64. 050
Commercial BMP requirements 13. 18. 090
Application, terms, renewal, fees 5. 64. 050
Definitions 13. 18. 030
Display, identification card 5. 64. 100
Discharge prohibitions 13. 18. 050
Fees exemptions 5. 64. 090
Enforcement 13. 18. 180
Nontransferable 5. 64. 110
Exemptions to discharge prohibitions 13. 18. 060
Required, identification card 5. 64. 040
General BMP requirements 13. 18. 070
Required, license, exceptions
General provisions 13. 18. 040
Suspension, grounds, procedure 5. 64. 070
Industrial BMP requirements 13. 18. 100
Inspection and sampling 13. 18. 170
SOLID WASTE Land development and redevelopment BMP
See REFUSE Land disturbance BMP requirements 13. 18. 140
requirements 13. 18. 150
SPECIAL EVENT Maintenance of BMPs 13. 18. 160
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND Municipal BMP requirements 13. 18. 120
STREET EVENTS Other acts or omissions 13. 18. 190
Penalties 13. 18. 200
SPECIAL EVENT COMMITTEE
Purpose 13. 18. 020
Residential BMP requirements 13. 18. 080
Designated, composition 12. 12. 010
Severability 13. 18. 210
Stormwater standards manual 13. 18. 130
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET Title 13. 18. 010
IMPROVEMENT FUND
Established, statutory authority 3. 36. 010 STREET BALLYHOO
Funding, source 3. 36. 020 Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Use, expenditures, limitations 3. 36. 030
Violation, notice, authority 8. 12. 080 STREET CURBS, PAINTING
Violation, penalty 5. 64. 150
Appealing 10. 14. 060
Applications 10. 14. 020
SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT Denial and issuance 10. 14. 030
26 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Grounds for revocation 10. 14. 050 Advertising, restrictions 5. 84. 150
Regulations 10. 14. 080 Alcoholic beverages, intoxicated person,
Suspension or revocation of permit, prohibited 5. 84. 160
notice hearing 10. 14. 040 Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Unauthorized painting of streets or curbs Closure, hours 5. 84. 130
10. 14. 010 Definitions 5. 84. 010
Violation, penalty 10. 14. 070 Exempt activities designated 5. 84. 020
Inspections, authority 5. 84. 180
STREET FAIR Loitering, restrictions 5. 84. 170
See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND Parking facilities, requirements 5. 84. 120
STREET EVENTS
TEENAGE DANCE PERMIT
STREET RACING Appeals 5. 84. 100
See SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT ILLEGAL Application, contents, fees 5, 84. 050
SPEED CONTESTS OR EXHIBITIONS OF Application, investigation, issuance conditions
SPEED 5. 84. 070
Classifications 5. 84. 040
SURPLUS PROPERTY Denial, revocation, fees nonrefundable 5. 84. 060
See PURCHASING
Expiration, renewal, fees 5. 84. 080
Required, eligible organizations designated
SWAP MEET, SWAP LOT
5. 84. 030
Admission records required, requirements
Suspension, revocation, grounds 5. 84. 090
5. 76. 100
TELEPHONE SOLICITATION
Definitions 5. 80. 010
Discrimination unlawful 5. 80. 070
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Driver's identification card, posting 5. 80. 200
Driver' s identification card, required, procedure THEATRICAL ROAD SHOW
5. 80. 190 Business license tax 5. 04. 320
Insurance requirements 5. 80. 020
Maintenance, equipment, regulations 5. 80. 150 TOBACCO
Rates, charges, failure to pay, defrauding See MINOR
unlawful 5. 80. 050 SMOKING, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
Rates, charges, filing, posting 5. 80. 040 SMOKING, PUBLIC PLACES;
Records, reports, requirements generally TOBACCO RETAIL LICENSE
5. 80. 060 Prohibitions near Tot Lot in City Park 12. 08. 010
Taximeter required, regulations 5. 80. 030
TOBACCO RETAIL LICENSE
T - Appeals 3. 56. 120
Definitions 3. 56. 030
TAXICAB PERMIT Enforcement 3. 56. 160
Hearings 3. 56. 130
Definitions 5. 80. 040
Legislative findings 3. 56. 010
Driver's Identification Card 5. 80.060
License applications 3. 56. 050
Effective Date 5. 80. 090 License display 3. 56. 070
Insurance Required 5. 80. 070
License fees 3. 56. 080
Issuing Authority 5. 80. 020
License issuance & Renewal 3. 56. 060
Licensing Fees 5. 80. 050
License nontransferable 3. 56. 090
Purpose 5. 80. 010
License requirements 3. 56. 040
Regulations 5. 80. 030
License revocation/ suspension 3. 56. 110
Taxicabs Operation, Color Trademark,
License violation 3. 56. 100
or Insignia 5. 80. 080
Purpose 3. 56. 020
Violation and Penalty 5. 80. 100
TEENAGE DANCE
27 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
Authorized personnel, obedience 10. 08. 030
Unauthorized persons, prohibited 10. 08. 020
TRAFFIC TRAFFIC ENGINEER
See also LOADING ZONES See also OFFICERS, CITY
PARKING, Office established, appointment, authority
PEDESTRIAN generally 2. 28.010
SPEED LIMITS Powers, duties generally, delegation 2. 28. 020
TRUCK ROUTES
VEHICLES TRAFFIC SIGNALS SYSTEM
Accident, report requirements 10. 08. 080 IMPROVEMENT FEES
Applicability, bicycles, animals 10. 08. 040
Establishment, due date 10. 64. 040
Applicability, public employees 10. 08. 060
Exempt activities designated 10. 64. 050
Barriers, signs, obedience 10. 24. 060
Imposed, purpose, scope, applicability
Commercial vehicle, driveway use restrictions
10. 64. 010
10. 24. 030
Revenues, segregation, use 10. 64. 060
Commercial vehicle, prohibited streets,
Schedule, computation 10. 64. 030
signposting 10. 44. 020
Definitions 10. 04. 020
TRAFFIC TURNING MOVEMENTS
Emerging from alley, driveway, building, stop
required 10. 20. 030
Intersection, signal- controlled, right turn
restrictions
Enforcement, interference prohibited 10. 08. 050
120
Enforcement, signposting required 10. 12. 020 Restricted, signposting 10. 12. 110
Exempt vehicles designated 10. 08. 070 Turning markers, placement 10. 12. 100
Funeral procession, parade, regulations
10. 24. 010 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Heavy vehicle, machinery, permit, bond See also SPEED LIMITS
requirements 10. 44. 030 Curb painting, unauthorized, prohibited
Intersection, obstruction prohibited 10. 24. 070 10. 12. 090
Intersection, visibility, regulations 10. 12. 130 Hours, days effective 10. 12. 080
Limited access roadway, restrictions 10. 24. 080 Installation, location, purpose 10. 12. 040
New pavement, markings driving over, Installation, purpose authority 10. 12. 010
prohibited 10. 24. 050 Lane markings 10. 12. 050
One-way streets, alleys, signposting 10. 16. 010 Obedience require 10. 12. 030
Ordinance established, citation 10. 04. 010 Removal, relocation, discontinuance when
Park, recreation areas, regulations 12. 08. 010 10. 12. 070
Sidewalk, riding, driving on, prohibitions Roadway markings 10. 12. 060
10. 24. 040
Stop signs, placement, location 10. 20. 010 TRAILER PARK
Through streets, designation, purpose 10. 20. 020 See also HOTEL, LODGINGHOUSE
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
TRAFFIC COMMISSION
See also OFFICERS, CITY TRANSFER SERVICE BUSINESS
Established, composition, qualifications 2. 60. 020 Definitions 3. 24. 010
Officers 2. 60. 030 Delinquency, penalties 3. 24. 070
Powers, duties generally 2. 60. 050 Exemptions 3. 24. 030
Purpose 2. 60. 010 Imposed, rate, applicability, liability 3. 24. 020
Traffic matters, report, recommendation duties Operator registration, requirements 3. 24. 040
2. 60. 060 Recordkeeping requirements 3. 24. 110
Refund, conditions, procedure 3. 24. 120
TRAFFIC DIRECTION Report, remittance, due date 3. 24. 060
Authorized personnel, designated, authority
Unlawful activities designated 3. 24. 130
10. 08. 010
28 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
TRANSIENT DEALER Repairing, residential zones, restrictions
See SOLICITOR 10. 32. 080
Storage of vehicles on streets prohibited
10. 32. 050
Washing, polishing, street use, restrictions
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX 10. 32. 090
Appeals 3. 24. 090
Collection, procedure generally 3. 24. 050 VEHICLE, RETAIL, SERVICE
Debt to city, recovery 3. 24. 100 BUSINESS USE
Business license use 5. 04. 330
TREASURER, CITY
See also OFFICERS, CITY VEHICULAR RETAIL, SERVICE
Bond requirements 2. 08. 030 BUSINESS
Business license tax 5. 04. 380
TREES, SHRUBS, PUBLIC PLACES
Damaging, removal, prohibited 12. 04. 010 VENDING MACHINE BUSINESS
Pruning, trimming, procedure, permit required
Business license tax 5. 04. 380
12. 04. 020
VERMIN
TRESPASS See INSECT, PEST, VERMIN CONTROL
See PROPERTY
TRUCK ROUTES
W
See also INTERSTATE TRUCK TERMINAL
DESIGNATION, ACCESS WALKATHON
Designation, use required when 10. 44. 010 See PERMITS FOR BLOCK PARTIES AND
STREET EVENTS
U
WARRANTS
USE TAX
See also CLAIMS, DEMANDS AGAINST CITY
Alternate procedures for payment of claims
See SALES, USE TAX 3. 12. 090
Disapproval of 3. 12. 060
URINATING Execution 3. 12. 040
Urinating, defecating in public 8. 50. 010 Recordkeeping and payment procedures
3. 12. 070
V -
WATER
VAUDEVILLE ENTERTAINMENT
See ENCINA WATER POLLUTION
Business license tax 5. 04. 320
CONTROL FACILITY
SEWER
WATER WELL STANDARDS
VEHICLE
See also ABANDONED VEHICLE WATER SOFTENER SERVICE
LOADING ZONES BUSINESS VEHICLE
PARKING
Business license tax 5. 04. 330
PROPERTY, PRIVATE
TRAFFIC
WATER WELL STANDARDS
Authority to remove for sale 10. 32. 060
Clinging to, prohibited 10. 24. 020 County regulations adopted 8. 56. 010
Interference, prohibited 10. 28. 040 Violation, penalty 8. 56. 010
Recreation, Oversized, non- motorized 8. 36. 040
Removal permitted when 10. 08. 090 WEAPONS
Repairing, on street, restrictions 10. 32. 070 Firearms, discharging, prohibitions, exceptions
29 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code Index
9. 16. 010 YARD SALES
Minor, selling to, prohibitions 9. 16. 030 See GARAGE SALES
Missiles, throwing prohibited 9. 16. 020
Secondhand, sales, regulations 9. 16. 040
WEEDS, RUBBISH YOUTH ADVISORY COMMISSION
See also REFUSE Ad hoc committees 2. 58. 080
Definitions 8. 60. 010 Establishment and composition 2. 58. 020
Nuisance declaration, waste matter, when Powers and duties 2. 58. 070
8. 60. 030 Purpose and intent 2. 58. 010
Nuisance declaration, weeds, grasses when Term of office 2. 58. 040
8. 60. 020 Staff assistance, financial support 2. 58. 090
Violation, penalty 8. 60. 130
WEEDS, RUBBISH ABATEMENT
COSTS
Assessment, statutory provisions adopted
8. 60. 120
Payment prior to hearing 8. 60. 110
WEEDS, RUBBISH ABATEMENT
COSTS REPORT, ACCOUNT
Hearing, procedure 8. 60. 100
Hearing, setting 8. 60. 090
Preparation 8. 60. 080
WELL
See WATER WELL STANDARDS
WHOLESALE FOOD WAREHOUSES
County Code regulations, by reference 8. 10. 010
WHOLESALER
Business license tax 5. 04. 310
WRECKING YARD, JUNKYARD
See also JUNK
Applicability of provisions 5. 88. 010
Enforcement, authority 5. 88. 080
Fence required, exceptions 5. 88. 020
Operating, evidence 5. 88. 070
Purchases, recordkeeping requirements
5. 88. 050
Vehicle, no operating, evidence, effect
5. 88. 060
Vehicle, street storage, restrictions 5. 88. 030
Violation, nuisance, abatement 5. 88. 040
Y -
30 1/ 11/ 2019
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 15. 04
Environmental Quality Regulations
Sections:
15. 04.010 Purpose
15. 04.020 Adoption of State Regulations
15. 04.030 EIR Preparation Thresholds
15. 04.040 City Responsibility for Environmental Assessment
15. 04.050 Expiration of Environmental Determinations
Section 15. 04.010 Purpose
The purpose of these environmental quality regulations (" EQR") is to implement the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and CEQA Guidelines (" guidelines") for the City by
applying the provisions and procedures contained in CEQA to development projects proposed
within the city.
Prior Code 31 B- 1; Ord. No. 89- 24, Added 6/ 12/ 89)
Section 15. 04.020 Adoption of State Regulations
As permitted by Section 15022( d) of the California Administrative Code, CEQA
Guidelines, the City adopts the California Environmental Quality Act ( Division 13 of the Public
Resources Code of the State of California, Section 21000 et seq.) and the State CEQA
Guidelines, as amended, by reference. Whenever any provisions of the CEQA or the guidelines
conflict with any provision of this chapter, CEQA, and the guidelines shall superseded this
chapter.
Prior Code 31 B- 2; Ord. No. 89- 24, Added 6/ 12/ 89)
Section 15. 04.030 EIR Preparation Thresholds
The City Planner shall determine which projects require the preparation of an
environmental impact report ( EIR), based on the magnitude or complexity of a project. Unless it
can be demonstrated through extensive technical studies that no significant impacts are
anticipated, the following projects are presumed to be sufficiently large and/ or complex so as to
require the preparation of an EIR.
A. Annexations over 200 acres.
B. Commercial or industrial development projects proposing more than 250, 000
square feet of gross building floor area.
C. Other development projects ( i. e., tentative subdivision maps, specific plans,
general plan amendments, etc.) which contain more than 100 acres or propose more than 200
dwelling units.
D. Notwithstanding the above thresholds, projects involving significant controversy
or complexity may require the preparation of an EIR, based on the results of an initial study,
pursuant to Section 15365 of the CEQA Guidelines.
Prior code 31 B- 3; Ord. No. 89- 24, Added 6/ 12/ 89)
Section 15. 04.040 City Responsibility for Environmental Assessment
A. In accordance with the provisions of Section 15084 of the guidelines, the City has
responsibility for, and control over, the form, scope, and contents of all documents comprising
15. 04 ( l) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
the environmental assessment of a project. All reports, studies or other documents prepared by
or under the direction of an applicant, intended for inclusion in the environmental documents,
shall be clearly identified as " Proponent' s Environmental Assessment," and shall set forth in
detail the assumptions, and methodologies supporting any conclusions reached, or upon which
any recommendations may be based.
B. The City, at its sole discretion, may decide to utilize the services of a private
consulting firm to prepare or review all studies, reports and other documents required or
permitted by the guidelines, including those submitted by the proponent or any other party. In
all cases, the consultant shall enter into a contract with, and is responsible directly to, the City.
All contract services shall be performed to the satisfaction of the City Planner.
C. All costs incurred in the preparation of the environmental documents, including
the cost of services performed under Subsection ( B) of this section and City staff time, shall be
borne by the proponent.
D. Notwithstanding the limitations of Section 3. 08. 270, the City Manager is
authorized to approve and execute or amend any contract with a consultant for the preparation
of an environmental assessment with a value exceeding $ 25,000 when ( 1) a project applicant
agrees to reimburse the City for expenses incurred by the City in connection with the
preparation of that environmental assessment, and ( 2) the consultant appears on a current list
of persons or companies authorized by the City Council to perform environmental assessments
on the City' s behalf, or is currently providing an environmental assessment for the City under an
ongoing Council approved contract which requires amendment.
Prior Code 31 B- 4; Ord. No. 89- 24, Added 6/ 12/ 89; Ord. No. 2002-28, Amended, 1/ 14/ 03)
Section 15. 04.050 Expiration of Environmental Determinations
Prior Code 31 B- 5; Ord. No. 89- 24, Added 6/ 12/ 89; Ord. No. 97- 20, Repealed, 12/ 09/ 1997)
15. 04 ( 2) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 15. 08
Collection of Recyclables
Sections:
15. 08.010 Purpose
15. 08.020 Definitions
15. 08.030 Separation of Recyclable Materials
15. 08.040 Collection by Unauthorized Persons
15. 08.050 Additional Methods of Disposal
15. 08.060 Enforcement
Section 15. 08.010 Purpose
Because the disposal of certain items into sanitary landfills contributes unnecessarily to
the premature closure of those landfills, and because many of those items can be used to
replace virgin materials in the manufacture of consumer goods, and because the County of San
Diego requires recyclables to be separated from the waste stream prior to disposal at County
operated landfills, the declared purpose of this ordinance is to require that recyclable materials
be separated from the waste stream prior to disposal.
Prior Code 19- 41; Ord. No. 89- 12, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 91- 34, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 15. 08.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words are used in this chapter, they shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section.
Customer" means any individual who places refuse for collection and disposal by a
municipal or private solid waste collection firm.
Designated recyclable materials" or " recyclables" means any materials required to
be separated from the waste stream prior to disposal as established by City Council resolution.
Waste stream" means all definitions for waste, rubbish, debris, garbage and refuse as
defined in Section 13. 16.020, except "hazardous wastes."
Prior Code 19- 42; Ord. No. 89- 12, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 91- 34, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 15. 08.030 Separation of Recyclable Materials
Designated recyclable materials shall be separated from the waste stream by the
customer prior to placement for collection in accordance with a schedule established by City
Council resolution.
The City or its authorized agent shall provide for a collection system for all designated
residential, commercial and industrial recyclable materials.
Prior Code 19- 43; Ord. No. 89- 12, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 91- 34, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91; Ord. No. 94- 25,
Amended, 10/ 25/ 94)
Section 15. 08.040 Collection by Unauthorized Persons
From the time of placement at the curb or in recycling shelters for collection through a
City- sponsored program, items shall become the property of the City or its authorized agent. It
is a violation of this chapter for any person unauthorized by the City to collect or pick up or
cause to be collected or picked up any such items. Any and each such collection in violation of
15. 08 ( l) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
these provisions from one or more locations constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
Prior Code 19- 44; Ord. No. 89- 12, Added 4/ 10/ 89; Ord. No. 91- 34, Amended, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 15. 08.050 Additional Methods of Disposal
Any person may donate or sell recyclables to any other person whether operating for
profit or not for profit.
Ord. No. 91- 34, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
Section 15. 08.060 Enforcement
1. The City Manager, or his designee, is responsible for enforcement of the
provisions of the chapter.
2. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable, and violations are punishable
pursuant to Chapter 1. 12 et. seq., of this code.
Ord. No. 91- 34, Enacted, 10/ 08/ 91)
15. 08 ( 2) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 15. 12
Historic Preservation
Sections:
15. 12. 010 Purpose and Intent
15. 12. 020 Boundaries and Areas of Application
15. 12. 030 Definitions
15. 12. 040 Environmental Review
15. 12. 050 Historic Preservation Commission
15. 12. 060 Register of Designated Historic Resources: Establishment; Criteria for
Inclusion Therein
15. 12. 070 Historic Resource Designation Procedures
15. 12. 080 Certificates of Appropriateness: Applicability
15. 12. 090 Certificates of Appropriateness: Procedures and Levels of Review
15. 12. 100 Certificates of Appropriateness: Criteria for Approval
15. 12. 110 Historic Preservation Incentives: Historic Property Preservation
Agreements
15. 12. 120 Historic Preservation Incentives: California Historic Building Code; Parking
Reductions and Waivers; Exemption from Certain Limitations on
Nonconforming Structures and Uses
15. 12. 130 Duty to Keep in Good Repair
15. 12. 140 Ordinary Maintenance and Repair
15. 12. 150 Existing Improvements
15. 12. 160 Appeals
15. 12. 170 Enforcement, Restitution and Penalties for Violation
Section 15. 12.010 Purpose and Intent
In both the built environment and the written historical record, there exists considerable
evidence of the course of human settlement and activity in what now constitutes the City of
Vista: from prehistoric Native American society to Spanish colonization, Mexican rule, American
statehood, the transformation of ranching and dry farming into a diverse agricultural industry,
and the eventual decline of agriculture in the face of suburban residential development.
Acknowledging the role that historic preservation can play in promoting the harmonious, orderly
and efficient development of the City, this chapter establishes a process by which to identify,
protect, enhance, and encourage the viable use of resources that embody the historic,
archaeological, cultural, architectural, and aesthetic heritage of the City, the state and the
nation.
With the fundamental purpose of enacting a practical and sustainable historic
preservation program, this chapter establishes procedures and standards intended to:
A. Carry out the goals and policies of the General Plan.
B. Safeguard the City' s historic heritage as embodied and reflected in its historic
resources and historic areas.
C. Stabilize and improve property values.
D. Preserve the City' s unique visual character.
E. Foster awareness of significant figures, events, and accomplishments in the
City' s history.
F. Strengthen the local economy by promoting tourism and providing an attractive
environment for business and industry.
15. 12 ( l) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
G. Protect and enhance both public and private amenities for residents, visitors and
the workforce.
H. Encourage adaptive reuse and other sustainable development practices.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.020 Boundaries and Areas of Application
This chapter applies to all historic resources publicly and privately owned within the
corporate limits of the City.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.030 Definitions
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter they shall have the
meaning established by this section.
Alteration" means any change or modification through public or private action of any
historic resource or of any property with a historic designation, including, but not limited to,
exterior changes to, or modifications of, a resource or any of its architectural details or visual
characteristics, including: paint color and surface texture, grading surface, paving, new
structures, cutting or removal of trees and other natural features, disturbances of archaeological
sites or areas, and the placement or removal of any objects such as signs, plaques, light
fixtures, street furniture, walls, fences, steps, plantings, and landscape accessories affecting the
historic qualities of the property.
Archaeological site" means a surface or subsurface area where remains of humans
or their activities prior to keeping of history are still evident.
Certificate of appropriateness" means a certificate issued by the City approving such
plans, specifications, design, or statements of work for any proposed alteration, restoration,
construction, removal, relocation, or demolition, in whole or in part, of or to a historic resource or
to any improvement on a property with a historic designation.
Commission" means the Planning Commission acting as the Historic Resource
Commission.
Exterior architectural feature" means the architectural style, design, general
arrangement, components, natural features and all the outer surfaces of the resource including,
but not limited to, the kind and texture of the building material, the type and style of all windows,
doors, lights, signs, walls, fences, and other appurtenant fixtures, and the natural form and
appearance of any grade, rock, body of water, stream, tree, plant, shrub, road, path, walkway,
plaza, fountain, sculpture, or other form of natural or artificial landscaping.
Historic Context Statement" means the City-adopted document that provides an
overview of the City' s history and identifies property types associated with defining cultural
themes and patterns of development. The Historic Context Statement is the basis for formal
decisions regarding the identification, evaluation, registration, and treatment of historic
properties.
Historic resource" means:
A. A resource listed in, or determined to be eligible by the State Historical
Resources Commission, for listing in the California Register of Historical Resources.
B. A resource included in a local register of historical resources or identified as
significant in a historical resource survey.
C. Any object, building, structure, site, area, place, record, or manuscript which a
lead agency determines to be historically significant on the basis of the criteria for listing on the
California Register of Historical Resources.
15. 12 ( 2) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Such additional resources, if any, that are defined as historical resources for
purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act.
Ordinary maintenance" means any repair, cleaning, painting, or other improvement
which does not result in a discernible visual alteration of a historic resource.
Paleontological site" means a surface or subsurface area where fossilized or
otherwise preserved remains of plants or animals which generally predate man' s emergence on
the earth are still evident.
Person" means any individual, association, partnership, firm, corporation, public
agency, or political subdivision.
Secretary of the Interior' s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties"
means the Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties with
Guidelines for Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring, and Reconstructing Historic Buildings.
Site" means any parcel or portion of real property which has special character or
special historic, cultural, archaeological, architectural, community, or aesthetic value.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.040 Environmental Review
In connection with any environmental review process occurring under the California
Environmental Quality Act, the City will evaluate the historical significance of any feature of the
built environment found to be more than 45 years old where a proposed project would result in
its alteration or removal. This review and assessment shall occur whether or not the potential
historic resource is officially designated as such at the local, state, or federal level. If, such
environmental review determines that the resource is of historic significance, the provisions of
Section 15. 12. 090 must be satisfied before any project may proceed which has the potential to
adversely affect such resource.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.050 Historic Preservation Commission
The City Planning Commission is hereby established as the Historic Preservation
Commission of the City of Vista.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.060 Register of Designated Historic Resources: Establishment; Criteria
for Inclusion Therein
The City of Vista Register of Designated Historic Resources shall develop over time as
resources worthy of historic designation are identified, evaluated, and registered through the
application and review procedures outlined in Section 15. 12. 070.
A. Potential historic resources shall only be considered for inclusion in the Register
upon formal application by the legal owner of the potential resource.
B. A potential resource will then be considered for inclusion in the register on the
basis of one or more of the following:
1. Its association with events that have made a significant contribution to the
broad patterns of local or regional history or the cultural heritage of California or the United
States.
2. Its association with the lives of persons important to local, California, or
national history.
15. 12 ( 3) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Its embodiment of the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region,
or method of construction; its representation of the work of a master; or its signification of high
artistic values.
4. Its potential to yield information important to the prehistory or history of
the local area, California, or the nation.
C. In addition to meeting one or more of the above criteria, a potential resource
must also retain enough of its historic character or appearance ( i. e. integrity) to be recognizable
as a historic resource and to convey the reasons for its significance.
D. The evaluation of potential historic resources shall be guided by a Historic
Context Statement, as adopted and updated pursuant to Section 15. 12. 060( B)( 3). Prepared in
accordance with the Secretary of the Interior' s Guidelines for Preservation Planning, the Historic
Context Statement shall assist decision- makers in determining whether or not candidates for
historic designation are representative of property types associated with locally significant
themes and patterns of development.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.070 Historic Resource Designation Procedures
Following formal application by the property owner, a potential historic resource may be
designated as such and thereby included in the Register of Designated Historic Resources in
the following manner:
A. An application for historic designation shall be filed with the Planning Division
upon prescribed forms and shall include the following data:
1. The name and address of the property owner and the assessor parcel
number and address of site where the potential resource is located.
2. Narrative that demonstrates how the potential resource meets one or
more of the criteria for inclusion established in Section 15. 12. 060.
3. Relevant sketches, photographs, or drawings.
4. Assessment of the current condition of the potential resource, by means
of an Architectural Resource Maintenance Report (ARMR).
5. Listing of any known threats to the preservation or rehabilitation of the
potential resource.
6. Plot plan in appropriate scale, listing the subject property' s legal
description as well as its existing land use and zoning designations.
7. Listing of all existing and proposed land uses on the subject property.
8. Bibliography of any known written material that makes reference to the
potential resource.
9. Chain of title, building records, photographs, as available.
10. Written consent to historic designation signed by the owner(s) of the
subject property.
B. An application for historic designation shall be processed in accordance with the
Permit Streamlining Act ( California Government Code Section 65920, et seq). All time frames
and processing periods set forth in this Chapter are directory only, except to the extent that a
time frame or processing period is mandatory with respect to a charter city pursuant to state
law.
C. A notice of an application for historic designation shall be forwarded to the
Building Division and no building or demolition permits for any alteration to any exterior feature
of the proposed resource shall be issued while the matter is pending final decision.
D. The City, at its sole discretion, may decide to utilize the services of a specialized
consultant to prepare or review studies, reports, or other documents pertaining to the eligibility
15. 12 ( 4) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
of a property to meet applicable historic preservation standards. All costs incurred in the
preparation of such materials shall be borne by the applicant.
E. Following receipt of a complete application, the Planning Division staff shall, on
the basis of the criteria outlined in Section 15. 12.060, prepare and forward to the Planning
Commission an evaluation of the potential resource' s eligibility for designation.
F. The Commission shall then by resolution either: a) enter the resource into the
Register of Designated Historic Resources; or b) determine that the resource does not warrant
such designation.
G. Within 30 days of a resource' s induction into the Register of Designated Historic
Resources, the owner of the designated resource shall cause the resolution approving the
resource' s induction to be recorded with the County of San Diego.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.080 Certificates of Appropriateness: Applicability
A. Without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness as provided for in this
chapter, it is unlawful for any person to alter, remove, or relocate any improvement or any
portion thereof which is: ( 1) designated as a historic resource; or ( 2) found to be of historic
significance in the course of the environmental review process.
B. Unless a certificate of appropriateness has been previously or concurrently
issued as provided for in this chapter, no board, department, or commission shall grant any
permit to carry out work on any property described in paragraph A.
C. No permit is necessary for ordinary maintenance of such properties, or if the
proposed work will not alter or change the style, color, design features, or character of the
resource, and a permit is not required under Section 301b of the Uniform Building Code.
Furthermore, this chapter shall not prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, demolition, or removal of any such feature when the Building Division certifies to the
City Council that such action is required for public safety due to unsafe or dangerous conditions
that cannot be rectified through the use of the California Historic Building Code.
D. The certificate of appropriateness required by this chapter is in addition to any
other permit required for the proposed project.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.090 Certificates of Appropriateness: Procedures and Levels of Review
A. An application for a certificate of appropriateness to do work on a designated
historic resource shall be filed with the Planning Division upon prescribed forms and with
required fees. In addition to the required forms, the application shall include the following data:
1. A concise statement of the nature and extent of the proposed work.
2. A site plan in appropriate scale, listing the subject property' s legal
description as well as its existing land use and zoning designations.
3. Additional sketches, drawings, photographs, or material boards as
required by the Planning Division.
B. An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be processed in
accordance with the Permit Streamlining Act ( California Government Code Section 65920, et
seq).
C. A notice of an application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be forwarded
to the Building Division and no building or demolition permits for any alteration to any exterior
feature of the proposed resource shall be issued while the matter is pending final decision.
D. An application for a certificate of appropriateness that does not involve the
addition of habitable space or a change to the existing dimensions of the designated resource
15. 12 ( 5) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
shall be reviewed by the City Planner as a minor alteration, unless the City Planner finds that
the proposed project would result in visual impacts significant enough to warrant a higher level
of review. Minor alterations to designated historic resources shall be processed as follows:
1. Review and approval by the City Planner shall be considered a ministerial
action and thus not subject to a public hearing or public notification requirement.
2. The determination to approve or deny a proposed minor project shall be
based on the criteria outlined in the Secretary of the Interior' s Standards for the Treatment of
Historic Properties.
3. Upon approval of a minor project, the applicant shall receive written
verification of said approval, in a form to be determined by the City Planner. Such written
verification shall accompany any subsequent application for building permits.
4. Should the proposed minor alteration be denied, the applicant shall
receive a written explanation of the denial, which shall make reference to the specific criteria not
met by the proposed project.
5. Within 14 days of rendering a decision on a certificate of appropriateness
for a minor alteration, the City Planner shall, for informational purposes only, provide written
notification of the decision to the Commission. Absent a formal appeal of the City Planner' s
decision in accordance with Section 15. 12. 160, the Commission shall not have the authority to
rescind or modify the City Planner's decision, require revisions to the project, or attach
additional conditions of approval.
E. An application for a certificate of appropriateness involving the addition of interior
floor area or a change to the existing dimensions of the designated resource shall be reviewed
by the Planning Commission as a major alteration.
F. Within 45 days of determining that an application for a major alteration has been
rendered complete, Planning Division staff shall, on the basis of the criteria outlined in the
Secretary of the Interior' s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, present to the
Commission an evaluation of the potential impacts of the proposed project on the visual
character and historic integrity of the designated resource.
G. The Commission shall then convene a public hearing to review the application.
On the basis of the Secretary of the Interior' s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties,
the Commission shall by resolution either issue or deny a certificate of appropriateness.
H. Notice of all public hearings pertaining to the designation process shall be given
as provided in Section 18. 04.060. In addition, notice of the date, place, time, and purpose of the
hearing shall be mailed return receipt requested to the owner of the proposed resource as
shown on the last equalized assessment role at least 14 days prior to the date of the public
hearing. Failure to send notice by mail to any property owner when the address of such owner
is not on the latest equalized assessment role shall not invalidate any proceedings in connection
with the proposed designation.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.100 Certificate of Appropriateness: Criteria for Approval
A. The Planning Commission shall issue a certificate of appropriateness for a major
alteration to a designated historic resource if, and only if, the proposed project is consistent with
the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, which are
hereby adopted by reference.
B. The Planning Commission shall issue a certificate of appropriateness if, and only
if, any potentially adverse off-site impacts, as identified through the requisite environmental
review process, are mitigated to a less than significant level.
C. Proposed projects that do not meet the above criteria shall be granted certificates
of appropriateness only under the following circumstances:
15. 12 ( 6) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
1. If the owner of a designated historic resource demonstrates to the
Planning Commission that such resource cannot be economically used, and denial of a
certificate of appropriateness would deprive the owner of all or most of his or her economic
interest in the property, the Commission may issue the certificate with an effective date 180
days from the date of issuance to allow time for the investigation of alternatives to the proposed
project, such as acquisition of the resource by the City or other entity with the desire and
wherewithal to maintain the historic integrity of the resource.
2. If the applicant has presented clear and convincing evidence to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission that disapproval will work immediate and substantial
hardship on the applicant because of conditions peculiar to the person seeking to carry out the
proposed work, whether this be the property owner, commercial tenant or resident, or because
of conditions peculiar to the particular resource or other feature thereof, and that approval of the
certificate will otherwise be consistent with the purposes of this chapter. In such cases, a
finding of overriding considerations would have to be made through the environmental review
process.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.110 Historic Preservation Incentives: Historic Property Preservation
Mills Act) Agreements
A. In order to preserve and protect the cultural, historical, and architectural heritage
of the City, certain incentives are provided in this chapter to owners of designated historic
resources. Among these incentives is a property tax reduction through the execution of a
historic property preservation agreement, in accordance with Sections 50280 et seq. of the
Government Code and Sections 439. 2 et seq. of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
B. As mandated by state law, at a minimum, historic property preservation
agreements shall provide for all of the following:
1. A perpetual ten- year term, with a minimum initial term of ten years and
one year added automatically to the term each year unless a notice of nonrenewal is filed. If a
notice of nonrenewal is filed, the agreement will become null and void upon expiration of the
ten- year term in effect at the time the notice was filed.
2. Preservation of the designated historically significant property throughout
the term of the agreement.
3. Restoration and rehabilitation, as necessary, to conform to the rules and
regulations of the Office of Historic Preservation of the State Department of Parks and
Recreation, the United States Secretary of the Interior' s Standards for Rehabilitation and the
State Historical Building Code.
4. Periodic examinations of the interior and exterior of the property by the
assessor, the State Department of Parks and Recreation, and the State Board of Equalization
as may be necessary to determine the property owner's compliance with the terms of the
agreement. Although not mandated by the state, each agreement will also provide for periodic
inspections by City staff with advance notice.
5. Provisions that all successors in interest shall have the same rights and
obligations under the agreement as the owner who entered into the agreement.
6. Right of the City to cancel an agreement if it determines that the property
owner has breached any of the conditions of the agreement or allowed the property to
deteriorate to the point that it no longer meets the criteria for designation as a historic resource.
7. Penalty of 12'/ 2 percent of the full market value ( based upon the
reasonably estimated tax savings for the full term of the agreement, as reasonably determined
by the City) if an agreement is canceled in accordance with Section 15. 12. 140( G).
15. 12 ( 7) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
C. An application to enter into a historic property preservation agreement may be
initiated by the owner of a property listed on the City' s Register of Designated Historic
Resources. Submittal requirements are as follows:
1. All forms required by the Planning Division.
2. A scaled site plan showing all existing improvements on the subject
property.
3. An assessment of the current condition of the historic resource, including
recommendations for the rehabilitation of any components of the resource that currently
threaten its preservation or compromise its historic integrity.
4. Official tax valuation information for the most recent tax year.
D. The review procedures for applications for historic property preservation
agreements are as follows:
1. Prior to submitting an application for a historic property preservation
agreement, the property owner shall schedule a pre- application review conference with the City
Planner. The purpose of the pre- application review conference is to ensure that mandatory
terms of the agreement are understood and that the minimum submittal requirements are met.
Applications may be submitted during or after the pre- application review conference.
2. All approved agreements must be executed on or before December 31 of
each year in order to take effect for the following property tax year, or such earlier date as may
be required to satisfy applicable legal requirements or applicable administrative requirements of
those agencies responsible for the notice, levy, collection, and distribution of property taxes.
3. Following receipt of a completed application, the City Planner shall
schedule a meeting with the property owner at the subject property. The meeting will be used to
inspect the property, determine if it complies with applicable criteria, and to develop a list of
improvements, if any, deemed necessary during the first ten- year period of the agreement to
restore the property' s architectural and/ or historical integrity. After the site meeting, a follow- up
meeting may be scheduled by the City Planner with the property owner to estimate the potential
property tax savings for the individual property. However, actual property tax savings will be
calculated by the County Tax Assessor each tax year. The City' s estimate is no more than a
simple estimate and not intended by the City to represent the actual tax savings any person
may experience. No person should rely on City representatives regarding the potential tax
savings resulting from the execution of a Historic Property Preservation Agreement when such
person is contemplating entering into such an agreement. Any person seeking to understand
the tax implications of entering into an agreement should consult a tax professional.
4. Once the site meeting has been completed and a list of required
improvements, if any, has been drafted, the City Planner shall forward the draft agreement and
the proposed list of improvements to the Commission for review. Within 30 days of receiving
said materials, the Commission shall convene a public hearing to consider the proposed list of
improvements, make recommendations for amendments to said list, and recommend approval
or denial of the historic property preservation agreement to the City Council.
5. Within 30 days of receiving said recommendation on the agreement, the
City Council shall convene a public hearing and either approve, conditionally approve, or deny
the requested agreement.
6. Once a historic property preservation agreement has been approved by
the City Council, the property owner shall pay the nonrefundable contract execution fee. Once
said fee has been paid, the approved agreement shall be executed by the property owner(s)
and the City with notarized signatures. The City shall forward all agreements properly executed
during a given calendar year to the County Recorder's office for recordation within 30 days after
the execution date. The recorded copy will be returned to the City for submission to the County
Tax Assessor's office for implementation. In accordance with state law, no properly executed
historic property preservation agreement may take effect until it has been recorded and
15. 12 ( 8) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
submitted to the County Tax Assessor's office. Each historic property preservation agreement
recorded before January 20 of a calendar year will take effect for property tax reduction
purposes in the tax year beginning July of that calendar year.
E. The approval of a historic property preservation agreement shall run with the
land, and shall continue to be valid upon a change of ownership.
F. Either party to a historic property preservation agreement may file a notice of
nonrenewal at any time after entering into the agreement. The effect of the notice of
nonrenewal is to render the agreement null and void upon expiration of the ten- year term in
effect at the time the notice is filed.
G. As established in this Chapter, the City Council may cancel a historic property
preservation agreement if the City Council determines that the property owner has breached
any of the terms of the agreement or has allowed the property to deteriorate to the extent that it
no longer meets the criteria in Section 15. 12. 060.
1. Following completion of the enforcement of agreement procedures
contained within each historic property preservation agreement and prior to the cancellation of a
historic property preservation agreement, the City Council may initiate and review cancellation
of an agreement.
2. If the City Council cancels an agreement, the property owner shall pay a
penalty to the State of 12'/ 2 percent of the full value of the property, as determined by the
County Tax Assessor.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.120 Historic Preservation Incentives: State Historic Building Code;
Parking Reductions and Waivers; Exemption from Certain
Limitations on Nonconforming Structures and Uses
A. The State Historic Building Code provides for reasonable alternatives to
established statutes or regulations where strict compliance would negatively affect the historic
integrity and/ or economic viability of a designated resource. While fulfilling its principal
obligation to protect public health and safety, the City shall apply the State Historic Building
Code in its review of designated historic resources in a manner that supports cost- effective
approaches to the preservation, enhancement, and beneficial use of such resources.
B. Because in many instances historic resources were permitted, constructed and
utilized under less restrictive parking standards than those currently in place, it is often
impossible for these resources to accommodate viable uses without some relief from current
parking requirements. To allow for viable and permitted uses of historic resources that would
otherwise be precluded by current parking standards, this chapter provides for the following:
1. For changes of use in designated historic resources that result in
additional parking requirements ( e. g. from retail to restaurant), the proposed new use shall be
credited with the number of parking spaces required for the outgoing use, regardless of whether
or not this number of spaces is actually provided. Thus, the proposed new use shall be
responsible only for accommodating the net increase in parking spaces required.
2. In circumstances where, as determined by the City Planner, the provision
of required parking under the preceding paragraph cannot be achieved without compromising
the historic integrity of the designated resource, a parking waiver may be granted through a
Minor Use Permit. In waiving parking requirements through a Minor Use Permit, the Planning
Division shall make the following findings, in addition to those findings required for a Minor Use
Permit:
a. The required parking cannot be provided without compromising
the historic integrity of the designated resource.
15. 12 ( 9) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
b. As evidenced through an empirical parking study, there are
sufficient on- street parking spaces available to meet the additional demand occasioned by the
change of use.
C. The applicant has entered into a shared parking agreement with
an adjacent property that, as evidenced through an empirical parking study, maintains a surplus
of parking spaces that can be conveniently utilized by the proposed new use during its principal
hours of operation.
d. The applicant pays an in- lieu fee for the required number of
spaces to be provided in a planned public parking facility located within 500 feet of the
designated resource, in which case " planned" shall mean listed in the City' s current capital
improvement plan and slated for construction within the next three years.
C. Historic resources classified as nonconforming buildings or accommodating
nonconforming uses shall benefit from the following provisions:
1. An existing nonconforming setback may be continued to an extent no
greater than double the floor area of the existing encroachment, so long as the additional floor
area extends no further into the required setback area than the existing encroachment.
2. A historic building shall not be classified as nonconforming solely on the
basis of a deficiency or wholesale absence of required on- site parking.
3. A nonconforming building partially or fully destroyed by an act of God or
the public enemy may be restored, and the use and occupancy of said building can be reestablished.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.130 Duty to Keep in Good Repair
The owner, occupant or other person in actual charge of a designated historic resource
shall keep in good repair all of the exterior portions of the improvement and all interior portions
thereof whose maintenance is necessary to prevent deterioration and decay of any exterior
element.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12. 140 Ordinary Maintenance and Repair
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair
of any exterior architectural feature in or on any property covered by this chapter that does not
involve a change in design material or external appearance thereof, nor does this chapter
prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, demolition or removal of any
such feature when the building official certifies to the Commission that such action is required
for the public safety due to an unsafe or dangerous condition which cannot be rectified through
the use of the California Historic Building Code.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.150 Existing Improvements
All repairs, alterations, reconstructions, restorations, or changes in use of existing
improvements shall conform to the requirements of the California Historic Building Code.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009-20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
15. 12 ( 10) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 15. 12.160 Appeals
A. Decisions regarding historic designations, certificates of appropriateness or Mills
Act contracts may be appealed to the next level of authority, with the City Council being the final
authority on any appeal.
1. Any decision of the City Planner may be appealed to the Planning
Commission.
2. Any decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council, including any decision regarding an appeal of a City Planner action.
B. Any person may appeal a decision of the City Planner or the Planning
Commission by properly filing with the Planning Division and the City Clerk a notice of appeal on
a form furnished by the Planning Division and submitting applicable fees.
C. Such notice of appeal shall be filed with the Planning Division and the City Clerk
within ten days of the date of the action being appealed.
D. Not later than seven days following any decision regarding an appeal of an action
taken under the provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk shall send written notice of the decision
to the applicant and appellant.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
Section 15. 12.170 Enforcement, Restitution and Penalties for Violation
A. Whenever any alteration, demolition, relocation, construction or grading of any
site is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Community Development
Director or designee may order the action stopped by notice in writing served on the responsible
party who shall forthwith stop such activity until authorized by the Community Development
Director or designee to proceed.
B. It is unlawful for any person to carry out any work on any building structure or site
in violation of a notice stopping such work.
C. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a public nuisance
and be subject to all lawfully available enforcement procedures, including without limitation,
those set forth in Sections 1. 12 and 1. 13 of the Municipal Code. As part of any enforcement
proceeding, violators may be required to reasonably restore the building, structure, object, or
site to its appearance or condition prior to the violation, under the guidance of the Planning
Division.
D. In the event that a historic resource is demolished or irreparably altered with
benefit of a certificate of appropriateness or other properly issued authorization of the City, no
building permit shall be issued for any new development on the property in question for a period
of five years from the date the violation occurs, other than as may be required to comply with
applicable health and safety requirements and regulations, and in no event shall any building
permit authorize any new construction to exceed the building square footage, lot coverage, and
use of the original structure.
Prior Code 32- 1; Ord. No. 89- 7, Added 3/ 27/ 89; Ord. No. 2009- 20, Repealed and Replaced, 9/ 22/ 09)
15. 12 ( 11) Vista 5/ 8/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 15. 16
Surface Mining and Reclamation
Sections:
15. 16.010 Purpose and Intent
15. 16. 020 Definitions
15. 16. 030 Scope
15. 16. 040 Permit and Reclamation Plan Requirement
15. 16. 050 Review Criteria
15. 16. 060 Review Procedure
15. 16. 070 Permit to Mine-Issuance
15. 16. 080 Performance Bond
15. 16. 090 Public Records
15. 16. 100 Periodic Review
15. 16. 110 Amendments
15. 16. 120 Variance
15. 16. 130 Enforcement
15. 16. 140 Appeal
Section 15. 16.010 Purpose and Intent
A. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the California Surface Mining and
Reclamation Act of 1975, Division 2, Chapter 9, Sections 2710, et seq., of the Public Resources
Code.
B. The Council finds and declares that the extraction of minerals ( including fill
and/ or construction materials) is essential to the continued economic well- being of the City and
to the needs of society, and that the reclamation of mined lands is necessary to prevent or
minimize adverse effects on the environment, to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
and to promote achievement of the goals and objectives of the Vista General Plan.
C. The Council further finds that the reclamation of mined lands as provided in this
chapter will permit the continued mining of minerals and will provide for the protection and
subsequent beneficial use of the mined and reclaimed land.
D. The Council further finds that surface mining takes place in diverse areas where
the geologic, topographic, climatic, biological, and social conditions are significantly different
and that reclamation operations and the specifications therefore may vary accordingly.
Prior Code 9- 1. 1; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16. 020 Definitions
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have the
meaning established by this section:
Borrow pit" means a pit created by the surface mining of rock, unconsolidated geologic
deposits, or soil for fill, construction or other uses.
Exploration" or " prospecting" means the search for minerals by geological,
geophysical, geochemical or other techniques including, but not limited to, sampling, assaying,
drilling or any surface or underground work needed to determine the type, extent or quantity of
minerals present.
Mined Lands" means the surface, subsurface and groundwater of an area in which
surface mining operations will be, are being, or have been conducted, including private ways
15. 16 ( l) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
and roads appurtenant to any such area, land excavations, workings, mining waste, and areas
in which are located structures, facilities, equipment, machines, tools or other materials or
property which result from, or are used in, surface mining operations.
Minerals" means any naturally occurring chemical element or compound, or groups of
elements and compounds, formed from inorganic processes and organic substances, including,
but not limited to, coal, peat and bituminous rock, but excluding geothermal resources, natural
gas and petroleum.
Mining" means extracting minerals from the earth, including the ordinary treatment and
processes normally applied by mine owners to obtain the commercially marketable mineral
product.
Mining waste" means the residue of soil, rock, mineral, liquid, vegetation, equipment,
machines, tools or other materials or property directly resulting from or displaced by surface
mining operations.
Operator" means any person who is engaged in surface mining operations, himself, or
who contracts with others to conduct operations on his behalf.
Overburden" means soil, rock or other materials that lie above a natural mineral
deposit or in between deposits, before or after their removal by surface mining operations.
Permit" means any formal authorization from, or approved by, the City, the absence of
which would preclude surface mining operations.
Person" means any individual, firm, association, corporation, organization or
partnership, or any city, county, district or the state or any department or agency thereof.
Reclamation" means the process of land treatment that minimizes water degradation,
air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife habitat, flooding, erosion and other adverse effects
from surface mining operations, including adverse surface effects incidental to underground
mines, so that mined lands are reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily adaptable for
alternate land uses and creates no danger to public health or safety. The process may extend
to affected lands surrounding mined lands, and may require backfilling, grading, resoiling,
revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization or other measures.
State Board" means the State Mining and Geology Board, in the Department of
Conservation, State of California.
State Geologist" means the individual holding office as structured in Section 677 of
Article 3, Chapter 2 of Division 1 of the Public Resources Code.
Surface mining operations" means all or any part of the process involved in the
mining of minerals on mined lands by removing overburden and mining directly from the mineral
deposits, open- pit mining of minerals naturally exposed, mining by auger method, dredging and
quarrying, or surface work incidental to an underground mine.
Surface mining operations include, but are not limited to:
1. In- place distillation, retorting or leaching
2. Production and disposal of mining waste
3. Prospecting and exploratory activities
4. Borrow pitting
5. Streambed skimming
6. Segregation and stockpiling of mined materials ( and recovery of same)
Prior Code 9- 1. 2; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80; Ord. No. 87- 16, Amended 5/ 11/ 87)
Section 15. 16.030 Scope
The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to:
A. Excavations or grading conducted for farming or on- site construction or for the
purpose of restoring land following a flood or natural disaster.
15. 16 (2) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Prospecting and exploration for minerals of commercial value where less than
1, 000 cubic yards of overburden is removed in any one location of one acre or less.
C. Any surface mining operation that does not involve either the removal of a total of
more than 1, 000 cubic yards of minerals, ores and overburden; or involve more than one acre in
any one location.
D. Surface mining operations that are required by federal law in order to protect a
mining claim, if such operations are conducted solely for that purpose.
E. Such other mining operations that the City determines to be of an infrequent
nature, and which involve only minor surface disturbances and are categorically identified by the
State Board pursuant to Sections 2714(d) and 2758( c), California Surface Mining and
Reclamation Act of 1975.
Prior code 9- 1. 3; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80; Ord. No. 87- 16, Amended 5/ 11/ 87)
Section 15. 16.040 Permit and Reclamation Plan Requirement
A. Any person, except as provided in Section 15. 16. 030, who proposes to engage in
surface mining operations as defined in this chapter, shall, prior to the commencement of such
operations, obtain:
1. A special use permit;
2. A permit to mine; and
3. Approval of a reclamation project; in accordance with the provisions set
forth in this chapter, and as further provided in Article 5, California Surface Mining and
Reclamation Act of 1975, and Section 3502, Article 1, Subchapter 1, Chapter 8, Division 2, Title
14, California Administrative Code. Filing and permit fees are as set forth in fee schedules to be
adopted from time to time by the City Council. Filing fees shall be paid to the City at the time of
filing an application for a special use permit. The applications for a special use permit, a permit
to mine and a reclamation plan for surface mining operations shall be made on forms provided
by the City as called for by Section 2772 of the Public Resources Code.
B. 1. No person who has obtained a vested right to conduct a surface mining
operation prior to January 1, 1976, is required to secure a permit pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter as long as such vested right continues, provided that no substantial change is made
in that operation except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A person is deemed
to have such vested rights if, prior to January 1, 1976, he has in good faith and in reliance upon
a permit or other authorization, if such permit or other authorization was required, diligently
commenced surface mining operations and incurred substantial liabilities for work and materials
necessary therefore. Expenses incurred in obtaining the enactment of an ordinance in relation
to a particular operation or the issuance of a permit shall not be deemed liabilities for work or
materials.
2. A person who has obtained a vested right to conduct surface mining
operations prior to January 1, 1976, shall submit to the City Planning Department and receive,
within a period of one year, approval of a reclamation plan for operations to be conducted after
January 1, 1976, unless a reclamation plan was approved by the City prior to January 1, 1976,
and the person submitting that plan has accepted responsibility for reclaiming the mined lands
in accordance with that plan. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the filing of
a reclamation plan for, or the reclamation of, mined lands on which surface mining operations
were conducted prior to, but not after, January 1, 1976.
C. The State Geologist shall be notified of the filing of all permit applications.
D. The State Department of Transportation shall be notified of the filing of all permit
applications wherever surface mining operations are proposed in the 100 year floodplain of any
stream, as shown in Zone A of flood insurance rate maps issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, and within one mile, upstream or downstream, of any state highway
15. 16 (3) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
bridge. The Department of Transportation shall have a period of not more than 45 days to
review and comment on the proposed surface mining operation, and no permit shall be issued
until the Department of Transportation has submitted its comments or until 45 days from the
date of application for the permit, whichever occurs first. Such applications shall be submitted
to the District Maintenance Engineer ( Attn: D. E. Delvey), District 11, P.O. Box 85406, San
Diego, CA 92138- 5406.
E. This chapter shall be continuously reviewed and revised, as necessary, in order
to ensure that it is in accordance with the state policy for mined lands reclamation.
Prior Code 9- 1. 4; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80; Ord. No. 87- 16, Amended 5/ 11/ 87)
Section 15. 16.050 Review Criteria
The Planning Commission, and on appeal the City Council, shall be governed by, but not
necessarily limited to, the criteria established in this chapter and in Section 18. 74. 120 of this
code, in reviewing and granting a special use permit or approving a reclamation plan. A special
use permit shall not be granted unless the Planning Commission finds that:
A. The proposed surface mine is consistent with the Vista General Plan and furthers
its implementation;
B. The proposed surface mine will not create a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare either during its operation or upon completion of the operation;
C. Establishment of the surface mine will not adversely affect the environment in
any manner which may not be mitigated satisfactorily;
D. Erosion control practices and facilities are proposed that will minimize soil
erosion from the site and prevent degradation of downstream elements of the watershed;
E. The proposed surface mining operation will not be detrimental to any scenic
corridor or preservation district officially designated as such by local, state or federal agencies;
F. The site is physically suited for a surface mining operation; e. g., adequate routes
of ingress and egress to the site, existing or proposed;
G. The proposed surface mine will not damage any public or private property or
interfere with any existing drainage course in such a manner as to cause damage to any
adjacent
property or result in the deposition of debris on any public way or create an unreasonable
hazard to persons or property;
H. The land area on which the surface mine is proposed is not subject to geological
hazards to the extent that no reasonable amount of corrective work will eliminate or significantly
reduce any potential hazard to persons or property;
I. The proposed surface mining site is to be fenced and/ or maintained in such
manner that no hazards are presented to the public;
J. Finished slopes ( cut or fill) match or blend with the natural contours and
undulations of surrounding land areas;
K. Finish slopes that exceed ten feet in vertical height that are exposed to public
view from or across such open areas as roads, canyons, floodplains or similar public vantage
points or open spaces are adequately screened or landscaped.
L. Where the primary purpose of a surface mining ( borrow pit) operation is to
prepare ( level) a site for future development, the timing of the project in relation to development
in the surrounding area should be a major consideration. When the operation is determined to
be premature, it may be grounds for denying the application for a special use permit under the
provisions of Chapter 18. 74 of this code.
Prior Code 9. 1. 5; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
15. 16 ( 4) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 15. 16.060 Review Procedure
A. All applications for a surface mining permit and reclamation plan are subject to an
environmental assessment in accordance with the provisions of the City's environmental quality
regulations ( EQR). The environmental review process shall be completed and a negative
declaration granted or, when determined necessary, an environmental impact report ( EIR)
prepared and certified prior to initiating the review and hearing on the application.
B. The Director of Planning shall coordinate the review of the special use permit
application and the reclamation plan with concerned City departments and other public
agencies, and shall schedule a public hearing within 90 days of the completion of the
environmental review process. Such public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission
in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18. 74 of this code, governing special use permits
SUP) for the purpose of consideration of the issuance of an SUP for the proposed surface
mining operation and approval of the reclamation plan.
Prior Code 9- 1. 6; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16.070 Permit to Mine - Issuance
The Director of Public Works may issue a permit to mine subject to the following
conditions:
A. The granting of a special use permit and approval of the reclamation plan by the
Planning Commission;
B. Submission of a suitable guarantee for faithful performance of the reclamation
plan when required;
C. The applicant' s compliance with all preconditions that may have been levied as a
condition of the special use permit; e. g., engineered plans for off-site improvements, erosion
control devices or other structures or devices that may be required.
Prior Code 9- 1. 7; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16.080 Performance Bond
Upon a finding by the Planning Commission that a supplemental guarantee for the
reclamation of the mined land is necessary, and upon the determination by the Planning
Commission of the cost of the reclamation of the mined land according to the reclamation plan,
a surety bond, cash deposit, lien or other security guarantee conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the reclamation plan shall be filed with the director of public works. Such surety
shall be executed in favor of the City and reviewed and revised as necessary, biannually. Such
surety shall be maintained in an amount equal to 150 percent of the cost of completing the
remaining reclamation of the site as prescribed in the approved or amended reclamation plan
during the succeeding two- year period, or other term, as determined by the applicant' s engineer
and the Director of Public Works.
Prior Code 9- 1. 8; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16.090 Public Records
Reclamation plans, reports, applications and other documents submitted pursuant to this
chapter are public records unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the City that the
release of such information, or part thereof, would reveal production, reserves or rate of
depletion entitled to protection as proprietary information. The City shall identify such
proprietary information as a separate part of each application. A copy of all permits, reclamation
plans, reports, applications and other documents submitted pursuant to this chapter, including
15. 16 (5) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
proprietary information, shall be furnished to the District Geologist of the State Division of Mines
and Geology by the City. Proprietary information shall be made available to persons other than
the State Geologist only when authorized by the mine operator and by the mine owner in
accordance with Section 2778 of the Public Resources Code.
Prior Code 9- 1. 9; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16.100 Periodic Review
As a condition of approval for the special use permit, the permit to mine and the
reclamation plan, a schedule for periodic inspections of the site shall be established to evaluate
continuing compliance with the special use permit, the permit to mine and the reclamation plan.
Prior Code 9- 1. 10; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16. 110 Amendments
A. Amendments to an approved reclamation plan may be submitted to the City at
any time, detailing proposed changes from the original plan. Substantial deviations from the
original plan shall not be undertaken until such amendment has been flied with, and approved
by, the City.
B. Amendments to an approved reclamation plan shall be approved by the same
procedure as is prescribed for approval of a reclamation plan.
Prior Code 9- 1. 11; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16. 120 Variance
Variances from an approved reclamation plan may be allowed upon request of the
operator and applicant, if they are not one and the same, and upon a finding by the Planning
Commission that each requested variance is necessary to achieve the prescribed or higher
post-mining use of the reclaimed land.
Prior Code 9- 1. 12; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16. 130 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by any authorized member of the
Department of Public Works of the City or such other persons as may be designated by the
Council. Periodic inspections will be conducted by the Public Works Department. A violation of
any provision of this chapter is deemed a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each day of violation is
deemed to be a separate offense.
Prior Code 9- 1. 13; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
Section 15. 16. 140 Appeal
Any person aggrieved by an act or determination of the Planning Commission in the
exercise of the authority granted in this chapter has the right to appeal to the City Council under
the same procedure set forth for the appeal of the grant or denial of a zoning variance, as
provided in Sections 18. 74. 090 through 18. 74. 110 of this code, except that any appeal must be
filed on forms provided by the City within ten days after the Planning Commission renders a
written decision.
Prior Code 9- 1. 14; Ord. No. 80- 52, Added 11/ 24/ 80)
15. 16 ( 6) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 04
Standards for Public Works Construction
Sections:
16. 04.010 Adoption of Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction
16. 04.020 Filing of Copies
16. 04.030 Adoption of San Diego Area Regional Standard Drawings
16. 04.040 Filing of Copies of Standard Drawings
Section 16. 04.010 Adoption of Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction
These provisions are adopted for the purpose of regulating materials of construction and
their use in the erection, installation, alteration, repair, removal, conversion, demolition, and
construction of public works improvements in the City of Vista; providing for the administration of
contracts as well as permits issued in connection with such improvements; and repealing all
ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith. Except as may otherwise be provided in
this chapter, the provisions of the 2012 Edition of the " Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction," prepared and promulgated by the Southern California Chapter of the American Public
Works Association and the Southern California District Associated General Contractors of
California, is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the authority thereof in Section 50020 et seq.
of the California Government Code, and applicable to all public works construction, except as
expressly modified in this chapter, and all provisions thereof are referred to, adopted and made a
part of this chapter as if set forth fully in this section.
Prior Code 6- 9; Ord. No. 86- 19, Amended 4/ 22/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 43, Amended 1/ 23/89; Ord. No. 91- 43,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 92; Ord. No. 2002- 16, Amended, 08/ 13/ 02; Ord. No. 2003- 25, Amended, 10/ 14/ 03; Ord. No.
2007- 7, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-22, Repealed and Replaced, 12/ 8/ 09; Ord. No. 2013-
7, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 14/ 13)
Section 16. 04.020 Filing of Copies
One copy of the Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2012 Edition,
adopted by reference in Section 16. 04.010, shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
Prior Code 6- 9; Ord. No. 86- 19, Amended 4/ 22/ 86; Ord. No. 88-43, Amended 1/ 23/89; Ord. No. 91- 43,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 92; Ord. No. 2002- 16, Amended, 08/ 13/ 02; Ord. No. 2003- 25, Amended, 10/ 14/ 03; Ord. No.
2007- 7, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/ 07; Ord. No. 2009-22, Repealed and Replaced, 12/ 8/ 09; Ord. No. 2013-
7, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 14/ 13)
Section 16. 04.030 Adoption of San Diego Area Regional Standard Drawings
These provisions are adopted for the purpose of regulating standard drawings for concrete
structures, drainage systems, electrical systems, general surface improvements, sprinkler irrigation
systems, landscaping, sewerage systems and miscellaneous for their use in construction of public
works improvements in the City; providing for the administration of contracts as well as permits
issued in connection with such improvements; and repealing all ordinances and parts of ordinances
in conflict therewith. Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, the 2012 Edition of the
San Diego Area Regional Standard Drawings, prepared and promulgated by the San Diego Area
Regional Standards Committee, is adopted by reference pursuant to the authority therefore in
Section 50020 et seq. of the California Government Code, and applicable to all public works
construction, except as expressly modified in this chapter, and all provisions thereof are referred to,
adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set forth fully in this section.
16. 04 ( l) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 6- 9; Ord. No. 86- 19, Amended 4/ 22/ 86; Ord. No. 88- 43, Amended 1/ 23/89; Ord. No. 91- 43,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 92; Ord. No. 2002- 16, Amended, 08/ 13/ 02; Ord. No. 2003- 25, Amended, 10/ 14/ 03; Ord. No.
2007- 7, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/07; Ord. No. 2009-22, Repealed and Replaced, 12/ 8/ 09; Ord. No. 2013-
7, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 14/ 13)
Section 16. 04.040 Filing of Copies of Standard Drawings
One copy of the San Diego Area Regional Standard Drawings, 2012 Edition, adopted by
reference in Section 16. 04.030, shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
Prior Code 6- 9; Ord. No. 86- 19, Amended 4/ 22/ 86; Ord. No. 88-43, Amended 1/ 23/89; Ord. No. 91- 43,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 92; Ord. No. 2002- 16, Amended, 08/ 13/ 02; Ord. No. 2003- 25, Amended, 10/ 14/ 03; Ord. No.
2007- 7, Repealed and Replaced, 6/ 26/07; Ord. No. 2009-22, Repealed and Replaced, 12/ 8/ 09; Ord. No. 2013-
7, Repealed and Replaced 5/ 14/ 13)
16. 04 ( 2) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 06
Administrative Code
Sections:
16. 06.010 Adoption of Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction
Section 16. 06.010 Adoption
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 7/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed,
11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.020 Definitions
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.030 Section 104 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.040 Section 204 Amended; Board of Appeals
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 14, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Repealed,
11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.050 Section 205 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.060 Section 301( b) Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended,
09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.070 Section 303 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.080 Section 304 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 06.090 Section 307 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-23, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
16. 06 ( l) Vista 4/ 21/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 07
Application Procedures for Electric Vehicle Charging Stations
Sections:
16. 07.010 Purpose; Definition
16. 07.020 Submission of Applications
16. 07.030 Technical Requirements
16. 07.040 Review and Action on Applications
16. 07.050 Appeals
Section 16. 07. 010 Purpose; Definition
A. This Chapter establishes a streamlined process to review and consider applications
for electric vehicle charging stations consistent with Section 65850. 7 of the California Government
Code. All terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to those terms pursuant to
Government Code subsection 65850. 7( i), or if not defined therein, as defined in this Title.
B. For purposes of this Chapter, the term "building official" means the building official for
the City of Vista, or his or her designee.
C. In implementing this Chapter, all terms and provisions shall be construed and applied
in a manner to avoid conflict with Section 65850. 7 of the Government Code, or other provisions of
State or Federal law.
Ord. No. 2017- 11, Added 9/ 8/ 17)
Section 16. 07. 20 Submission of Applications
A. Pursuant to this Chapter, a person may obtain an expedited review of an application
to install an electric vehicle charging station by submitting to the building official a complete
application in accordance with paragraph B, below. Any determination that an application is
incomplete shall be communicated in writing and shall inform the applicant of the additional content
required to render the application complete.
B. The contents needed to qualify an application as complete will be included in a written
checklist prepared by the building official which may require the applicant to:
1. Pay an application fee in the amount set by a City Council resolution; and
2. Demonstrate compliance with: ( a) public health and safety requirements
contained in building codes, electric codes and similar codes; (b) safety and performance standards
adopted by the associations and commissions listed in subsection 65850. 7( f)(2); ( c) publications of
the Office of Planning and Research as described in subsection 65850. 7( g)( 2); ( d) laws or local
ordinances adopted to protect the public from specific adverse health or safety impacts; and( e) such
other lawful content as may be required by the building official.
3. Demonstrate that proposed electric vehicle charging stations will be
compatible with the electrical system capability and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding and
overcurrent protection; building infrastructure affected by charging station equipment and associated
conduits; areas of charging station equipment and vehicle parking.
4. Demonstrate compliance with the requirements of Section 16. 07. 030.
C. The City' s adopted checklist shall be published on the City' s website. The building
official shall have authority to amend or update the City's adopted checklist to address changes in
the building codes, changes in the technology, or other changes that affect the design, installation
and inspection of electric vehicle stations.
Ord. No. 2017- 11, Added 9/ 8/ 17)
16. 07 ( l) Vista 9/ 8/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 07. 030 Technical Requirements
All proposed installations of electric charging stations shall satisfy each of the following
requirements, in addition to those described in Section 16. 07. 020:
A. Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and associated wiring, bonding,
disconnection means and overcurrent protective devices shall meet the requirements of Article 625
and all applicable provisions of the California Electrical Code.
B. Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be incorporated into the load
calculations of all new and existing electrical services and shall meet the requirements of the
California Electrical Code.
C. Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall- mounted electric vehicle charging stations
shall meet the requirements of the California Building Code or the Residential Building Code, as
applicable per the occupancy, and the provisions of the manufacture' s installation instructions.
Mounting of charging stations shall not adversely affect building elements.
Ord. No. 2017- 11, Added 9/ 8/ 17)
Section 16. 07. 040 Review and Action on Applications
A. Except as provided in paragraph B, the building official will review and approve a
complete application as a nondiscretionary permit using an expedited review process consistent with
Section 658050. 7 of the Government Code. When approving an application, the building official may
impose conditions to mitigate specific adverse impacts on the public health or safety.
B. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, review of the application shall occur using
the City's special use permit process if the building official determines in writing, based on
substantial evidence, that the installation could have a specific adverse impact on the public health
or safety.
1. Any written determination to require a special use permit shall identify the facts and
reasons for that determination.
2. After issuing a determination requiring a special use permit, the City will resume
processing the application after it receives a complete application for a special use permit, inclusive
of the application fee.
3. Upon the conclusion of a public hearing to consider an application for a special use
permit, the application shall be approved, conditionally approved, or denied. However, a denial shall
occur only if the proposed installation would produce a specific adverse impact on the public health
or safety which cannot be feasibly mitigated, and written findings to that effect are made.
Ord. No. 2017- 11, Added 9/ 8/ 17)
Section 16. 07. 050 Appeals
An applicant may appeal any written determination made pursuant to Sections 16. 07. 020 or
16. 07. 040 by delivering to the City Clerk a written appeal inclusive of any required appeal fee, no
later than ten days following the date of the contested written determination. The appeal shall identify
the result sought on appeal, the facts supporting that result, and the reasons supporting that result.
Ord. No. 2017- 11, Added 9/ 8/ 17)
16. 07 ( 2) Vista 9/ 8/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 08
California Building Code
Sections:
16. 08.010 Adoption
16. 08.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 101. 4. 1
16. 08.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 101. 4.4 Deleted
16. 08.040 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 105.3. 2
16. 08.050 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 109.4
16. 08.060 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 109.6
16. 08.070 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 110.3. 5 Exception Deleted
16. 08.080 Required Installation of Automatic Fire Extinguishing Systems
16. 08.090 Chapter 31, Section 3109
16. 08. 100 Department of Building Safety, Building Official, Duties
16. 08. 110 Certificate of Occupancy; When Required
16. 08. 120 Application for a Certificate of Occupancy; Responsible Parties
16. 08. 130 Application for Certificate of Occupancy; Review
16. 08. 140 Issuance of a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
16. 08. 150 Posting of Certificate of Occupancy
16. 08. 160 Suspension or Revocation of a Certificate of Occupancy
16. 08. 170 Requirement to Obtain a Certificate of Occupancy After An Occupancy or
Use is Established
16. 08. 180 Violations Involving Certificates of Occupancy
Section 16. 08.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 2, Volumes 1 and 2, including
Appendix H and Appendix I and Appendix L known as the California Building Code, as
published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, including
amendments, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth.
Prior Code 6- 1; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Amended,
07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007-23, Amended, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No.
2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended,
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16.08.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 101. 4. 1
Section 101. 4. 1 Gas. The provisions of the California Plumbing Code shall apply to the
installation of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas appliances and related accessories as
covered in this code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point
of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of residential
and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
Prior Code 6- 1; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/99; Ord. No. 2002-20, Enacted, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Amended,
11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No.
2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 08 (l) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 08.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 101. 4.4 Deleted
Prior Code 6- 1. 1; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07;
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16,
Deleted 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 08.040 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 105.3. 2
Section 105.3. 2 Time limitation of Application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned one year after the date of filing,
unless a permit has been issued.
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 3; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord.
No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended,
10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16.080.050 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 109.4
Section 109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who
commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a penalty equal to the permit fee to
be paid in addition to the permit fee when obtaining the building permit.
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 4; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/95; Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended,
10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 08.060 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 109.6
Section 109.6 Refunds. Refunds for a permit or plan review, when no work has
commenced, shall be limited to the fee paid minus the cost equal to all services provided
including refund processing.
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 5; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/95; Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended,
10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16.08.070 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 110.3. 5 Exception
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 6; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No.
2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord No. 2016- 16, Deleted
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 08.080 Required Installation of Automatic Fire Extinguishing Systems
Section 16. 08.080 Required Installation of Automatic Fire Extinguishing
Systems. Automatic fire extinguishing systems shall be installed in accordance with Section
903 .2 of the California Fire Code as amended by Section 16. 40.050 of the Vista Fire Code.
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 8; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No.
2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16)
16. 08 (2) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16.08.090 Chapter 31, Section 3109
Section 3109.2 Definitions. Definitions in this section shall be defined as
provided in Section 3109.4.4. 1. Otherwise, a term not defined in Section 3109.4. 4. 1, shall be
defined as provided in Chapter 2 of this code.
Section 3109.4. 1 Barrier height and clearances. The top of the barrier shall be at
least 60 inches above grade measured on the side of the barrier that faces away from the
swimming pool. The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier
shall be 2 inches measured on the side of the barrier that faces away from the swimming pool.
Where the top of the pool structure is above grade.. the barrier is authorized to be at ground
level or mounted on top of the pool structure.. and the maximum vertical clearance between the
top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be 4 inches."
Prior Code 6- 1. 1. 11; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No.
95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/95; Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended,
10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16.08. 100 Department of Building Safety, Building Official, Duties
A. Consistent with Section 103.2 of the California Building Code, a department of
building and safety operates in the City as the Building Division of the Community Development
Department, which is overseen by the person serving as building official pursuant to the City' s
classification schedule, or who discharges those functions. The building official, pursuant to
Section 103.2 of the California Building Code, may appoint or be served by deputies.
B. The responsibilities and duties of the department of building safety and building
official include:
1. All duties assigned pursuant to applicable State law, including the California
Building Code as adopted and amended by the City; and
2. Such additional duties with respect to buildings, structures and the uses
therein which are assigned to the building official by ordinance adopted of the Vista City Council
for the purpose of promoting the public safety.
C. Before the building official issues a certificate of occupancy for a new occupancy
or change in use pursuant to Section 16. 08. 130, the building official shall determine that the
new occupancy or change in use would comply with the California Building Code and constitute
a lawful use under the Title 18 of the Vista Development Code including any specific plan
adopted thereunder. If the building official determines that a new occupancy or change in use
would violate the California Building Code or be unlawful under Title 18 of the Vista
Development Code or any specific plan adopted thereunder, the building official will deny the
application for a certificate of occupancy.
D. By discharging the duties described in Sections 16. 08. 100 through 16. 08. 170,
including paragraph C of this Section, it is intended that the building official will promote: ( i) the
efficient administration of the California Building Code; ( ii) lawful occupancies and uses of
buildings or structures which conform to the California Building Code; and ( iii) compliance with
laws governing the construction maintenance, and use of buildings or structures. In turn, these
efforts assure that the buildings or structures used by the public, including the occupancies and
uses therein, are both safe and lawful. Additionally, such efforts protect the public by deterring
a transformation of lawful buildings, structures, occupancies or uses into building, structures
occupancies, or uses that constitute a nuisance under Title 18 of the Vista Development Code
or Section 8. 36.040( B)( 15) of the Vista Municipal Code.
Prior Code 6- 1. 1; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 24/ 87; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No.
99- 12, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended,
16. 08 (3) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No.
2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16. 08. 110 Certificate of Occupancy; When Required
A. Except as provided in paragraph ( C), no new occupancy or change in use of a
structure, improvement or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy approving that occupancy or use.
B. For purposes of Chapter 16. 08, the term " new occupancy or change in use"
means any new, changed, modified, or altered occupancy, use or physical characteristic of all
or part of a building or structure which will:
1. Produce an occupancy or use of a formerly vacant portion of a building or
structure in combination with work or activities requiring a permit or authorization under the
Vista Development Code, the California Building Code, or similar code;
2. Alter an existing use of all or part of a building or structure to change the
occupancy classification for all or part of a building or structure under the California Building
Code;
3. Intensify or alter an existing occupancy or use of all or part of a building or
structure to require additional or different building or safety measures under the California
Building Code; or
4. Cause a new use or additional land use to operate from all or part of a
building or structure based on the land use categories recognized under Title 18 of the Vista
Development Code or specific plans adopted thereunder in combination with work or activities
requiring a permit or authorization under the Vista Development Code, the California Building
Code, or similar code.
C. A certificate of occupancy pursuant to this Chapter is not required for existing or
new detached one and two family dwellings or townhouses as defined in the California
Residential Code, and their accessory structures.
Ord. No. 92- 13, Enacted, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Amended,
07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Amended, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010-
17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16. 08. 120 Application for a Certificate of Occupancy; Responsible Parties
A. The building official will process applications for certificates of occupancy using a
form prepared by the building official upon payment of an application fee in such amount as is
set by the City Council by resolution or otherwise allowed by law.
B. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant whose action will or has
necessitated issuance of a certificate of occupancy to apply for and obtain such certificate
before effecting, establishing or operating a new occupancy or change in use. It shall be
unlawful to effect, establish or operate a new occupancy or change in use without first obtaining
a certificate of occupancy, and thereafter maintaining the certificate of occupancy in good
standing during all periods that such occupancy or use occurs.
C. Following issuance of a conformance order for an occupancy or use pursuant to
Section 16. 08. 170, a person aware of the order shall, following the conformance deadline,
refrain from participating, owning or managing the occupancy or use covered by the order until
such time that a certificate of occupancy is issued for such occupancy or use.
Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20,
Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
16. 08 (4) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 08. 130 Application for Certificate of Occupancy; Review
A. Upon receipt of a complete application for a certificate of occupancy and the
required application fee, the building official shall consider the occupancy, consider the use, and
inspect, as appropriate, the building or structure subject to the application. The building official
shall issue the certificate of occupancy unless he or she finds a violation of the California
Building Code, Title 18 of the Vista Development Code or other regulations that are enforced by
the building official. Prior to issuance, all work required in connection with any building permit
issued for such occupancy or use must be completed as determined by a final inspection,
except in accordance with Section 16. 08. 140.
B. An approved certificate of occupancy shall contain the following information:
1. The approval number;
2. The address of the building or structure;
3. The name and address of the permit holder;
4. A description of that portion of the building or structure for which the
certificate is issued;
5. A statement that the described portion of the structure has been
inspected for compliance with the requirements of the California Building Code for the
occupancy and division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified;
6. The signature of the building official;
7. The edition of the California Building Code under which the permit was
issued;
8. The use and occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of the
California Building Code and Title 18 of the Vista Development Code;
9. The type of construction as defined in the California Building Code;
10. The design occupant load in rooms used for public assembly and
classified in Occupancy Group A;
11. Whether an automatic sprinkler system is provided and, if so, the reason
that the automatic sprinkler system is provided; and
12. Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
C. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval
of a violation of any of the provisions of the Vista Development Code, the Vista Municipal
Code or any other local, state or federal law or regulation.
Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20,
Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16.08. 140 Issuance of a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
If the building official finds that a building, structure or a portion thereof can be occupied
safely, and that no substantial hazard will result from occupancy of any building, structure or
portion thereof before all work is completed, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued. A certificate of occupancy is required upon completion of the remainder of the work.
The building official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy
is valid.
Ord. No. 2007-23, Enacted, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20,
Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16, Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
16. 08 (5) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 08. 150 Posting of Certificate of Occupancy
The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises and
shall not be removed except by the building official.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16,
Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16. 08. 160 Suspension or Revocation of a Certificate of Occupancy
The building official may suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy if the certificate
was issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information, or if the building official determines
that the occupancy, use or structure, including any portion thereof, violates any ordinance,
regulation, or provision of the California Building Code or Title 18 of the Vista Development
Code.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord No. 2016- 16,
Repealed 10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16. 08. 170 Requirement to Obtain a Certificate of Occupancy After An
Occupancy or Use is Established
A. The building official may issue a conformance order to achieve or confirm
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and the California Building Code. The
conformance order will describe the occupancies or uses covered by the order and set a date,
known as the conformance deadline, by which: ( i) a certificate of occupancy shall be obtained
for such occupancies or uses; or ( ii) the initial conformance order shall be rescinded if cause is
shown. If the conformance deadline passes without the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
or a rescission order particular to an occupancy or use, that occupancy or use shall thereafter
be deemed an unlawful use operating without a certificate of occupancy in violation of this
Chapter and subject to all remedies available to the City. A conformance order may be issued
to an owner, operator or manager of a building, structure, business, occupancy or use. Any
conformance order shall describe the basis for the order in writing and shall be delivered by the
United States postal service, in person, or through other means which provides lawful notice. A
conformance deadline shall be set in the reasonable determination of the building official, but
shall not be a date more than 30 days after the date the conformance order issues unless good
cause is shown for an extension to a period not exceeding 90 days from the date the
conformance order was issued.
B. A conformance order may be issued by the building official when:
1. The building official has reason to believe that a new occupancy or
change in use was established in violation of this Chapter without first obtaining a certificate of
occupancy.
2. The building official has reason to believe that a certificate of occupancy
was previously issued for an occupancy or use at a particular location, but the occupancies or
uses existing at the location, as of the date of the conformance order, are operating or existing
in violation of the California Building Code or Title 18 of the Vista Development Code.
3. The building official has reason to believe that an occupancy or use is
operating without a certificate of occupancy, for any reason, in a manner that violates the
California Building Code or Title 18 of the Vista Development Code.
C. If a certificate of occupancy is not obtained by the conformance deadline, the
occupancy or use specified in the order will be classified as an unlawful occupancy or use
existing without a required certificate of occupancy. Each day of continued operation of the
occupancy or use beyond the conformance date will constitute a separate violation of this Code.
16. 08 (6) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
D. The operation of an occupancy or use without receipt of a conformance order
does not:
1. Indicate that such occupancy or use conforms to any law or regulation of
any nature; or
2. Excuse any legal obligation of an owner, manager, operator or other party
of an occupancy or use to comply with such laws or regulations.
Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
Section 16. 08. 180 Violations Involving Certificates of Occupancy
In the event that any provision of Sections 16. 08. 100 through 16. 08. 180 is violated or
unsatisfied, any and all enforcement actions and safety actions authorized under California
Building Code or the Vista Development Code are hereby authorized, and may be undertaken
by the building official or any other enforcement officer or attorney on behalf of the City.
Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
16. 08 (7) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 10
California Historical Building Code
Sections:
16. 10. 010 Adoption
Section 16. 10. 010 Adoption
The 2013 California Building Standards Code.. Part 8, California Historical Building
Code.. as published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission is adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Ord. No. 99- 12, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002-20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Amended
11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016-
16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 10 ( l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 12
Uniform Housing Code
Sections:
16. 12. 010 Adoption
16. 12. 020 Definitions
16. 12. 030 Section 203 Amended
Section 16. 12.010 Adoption
A. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Uniform Housing Code, 1994
Edition, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth, except for the
additions and amendments of this chapter. In the event of any conflict or ambiguity between
any provision contained in the Uniform Housing Code and any amendment or addition thereto
contained in this chapter, the amendment or addition set forth in this chapter shall control.
Prior Code 6- 2; Ord. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13,
Amended, 07/ 28/92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 12.020 Definitions
Whenever any of the following names or terms are used in the Uniform Housing Code,
such name or term shall be deemed and construed to have the meaning ascribed to it in this
section as follows:
Building Department" means the Community Development Department, Building
Division, of the City.
Building Official" means the Building Official of the City.
Prior Code 6- 2; Ord. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91)
Section 16. 12.030 Section 203 Amended
Section 203 of the Uniform Housing Code is amended to read as follows:
Section 203 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions and
determinations made by the Building Official relative to the application and interpretations of the
technical code, there shall be and is hereby established a housing advisory and appeals board.
The housing advisory and appeals board shall be the Board of Appeals established under the
Section 204 of the Uniform Administrative Code. Appeals to the board shall be processed in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section 1201 of this code.
Prior Code 6- 2. 1; Ord. 87-39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15,
Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
16. 12 ( l) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 14
California Existing Building Code
Section:
16. 14.010 Adoption
16. 14.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 105.3. 2 Amended
16. 14.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 108.4 Amended
16. 14.040 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 108.6 Amended
Section 16. 14.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 10, California Existing Building Code
as adopted by the California Building Standards Commission , is adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Ord. No. 99- 12, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002-20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007-23, Amended,
11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016-
16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 14.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 105.3. 2 Amended
Section 105. 3.2 is amended to read as follows:
Section 105. 3.2 Time limitation of Application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned one year after the date of filing,
unless a permit has been issued.
Ord. No. 2016- 16, Added, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 14.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 108.4 Amended
Section 108.4 is amended to read as follows:
Section 108.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who
commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a penalty equal to the permit fee to
be paid in addition to the permit fee when obtaining the building permit.
Ord. No. 2016- 16, Added, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 14.040 Chapter 1, Division II, Section 108.6 Amended
Section 108.6 is amended to read as follows:
Section 108.6 Refunds. Refunds for a permit or plan review, when no work has
commenced, shall be limited to the fee paid minus the cost equal to all services provided
including refund processing.
Ord. No. 2016- 16, Added, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 14 ( l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 16
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
Sections:
16. 16. 010 Adoption
16. 16. 020 Definitions
16. 16. 030 Section 205 Amended
16. 16. 040 Section 206 Added
Section 16. 16.010 Adoption
A. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Uniform Code for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1994 Edition, is adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if fully set forth, except for the additions and amendments of this chapter.
B. In the event of any conflict or ambiguity between any provision contained in the
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings and any amendment or addition
thereto contained in this chapter, the amendment or addition in this chapter shall control.
Prior Code 6- 3; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13,
Amended, 07/ 28/92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 16.020 Definitions
Whenever any of the following names or terms are used in the Uniform Code for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, such name or term shall be deemed and construed to have
the meaning ascribed to it in this section as follows:
Building Department" means the Community Development Department, Building
Division, of the City.
Prior Code 6- 3; Ord. No. 87-39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91)
Section 16. 16.030 Section 205 Amended
Section 205 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings is amended
to read as follows:
Section 205 In order to provide for reasonable interpretation of the provisions of this
code and to hear appeals provided for hereunder, there is hereby established a Board of
Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall be the Board of Appeals established under Section 204 of
the Uniform Building Code. Appeals to the board shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions contained in Section 501 of this code.
Prior Code 6- 3. 1; Ord. No. 87- 39, Amended 12/ 14/ 87; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95-
15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 16.040 Section 206 Added
Section 206 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Building is added to
read as follows:
16. 16 ( l) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 206 It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure which was unlawful at the time
it was constructed and which would be unlawful under the building code if constructed after the
effective date of such code, and shall constitute a continuing violation of such code. Any
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of the building code shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and such persons shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the building
code is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such violations, such
person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $ 1, 000 or by imprisonment for not more than
six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91)
16. 16 (2) Vista 5/ 21/ 13)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 18
Elevator Safety Construction Code
Sections:
16. 18. 010 Adoption
Section 16. 18.010 Adoption
Ord. No. 99- 12, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/ 24/02; Ord. No. 2007- 23, Repealed,
11/ 13/ 07)
16. 18 ( l) Vista 4/ 8/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 20
Uniform Sign Code
Sections:
16. 20.010 Adoption
Section 16. 20.010 Adoption
Prior Code 6- 4; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15,
Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 2007-25, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 20.020 Definitions
Prior Code 6- 4; Ord. No. 2007- 25, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 20.030 Section 303 Deleted
Prior Code 6- 4. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 25, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
Section 16. 20.040 Section 304 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 2007-25, Repealed, 11/ 13/ 07)
16. 20 ( l) Vista 8/ 4/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.22
California Residential Code
Sections:
16. 22.010 Adoption
16. 22.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section R105.3. 2
16. 22.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section R108.5
16. 22.040 Chapter 1, Section R108.6
16. 22.050 Chapter 3, Section R313. 2
16. 22.060 Appendix K, Section AK101. 1
Section 16. 22.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Residential standards code part 2. 5 including, Appendix H, and
Appendix K known as the California Residential Code, as published and adopted by the
California Building Standards Commission , including amendments, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.020 Chapter 1, Division II, Section R105. 3. 2
Section R105.3. 2 Time limitation of Application. An application for a permit for
any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned one year after the date of filing,
unless a permit has been issued.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.030 Chapter 1, Division II, Section R108. 5
Section R108.5 Refunds. Refunds for permit when no work has commenced
shall be limited to the permit cost minus a fee equal to all services provided including refund
processing.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.040 Chapter 1, Division II, Section R108.6
Section R108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who
commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a penalty equal to the permit fee to
be paid in addition to the permit fee when obtaining the building permit.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.050 Chapter 3, Section R313.2
Section R313.2 One and two-family dwellings automatic fire systems. An
automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in one and two family dwellings.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required for additions or
alterations to existing building that are not already equipped with an automatic residential
16. 22 ( l) Vista 9/ 8/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
sprinkler system. Accessory dwelling units, as defined in Section 65852. 2 of the Government
Code, shall not be required to provide fire sprinklers if they are not required for the primary
residence.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16; Ord. No 2017- 10, Amended 9/ 8/ 17)
Section 16. 22.060 Appendix K, Section AK101. 1
Section AK101. 1 General Wall and floor-ceiling assemblies separating dwelling
units including those separating town- house units shall comply with the California Building Code
Title 24 Part 1 Section 1207.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.070 Chapter 3, Section R313.2
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.080 Chapter 9, Section 902. 1
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22.090 Appendix G Section AG101. 1
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22. 100 California Building Cod Title 24 Part 2, Chapter 31, Section 3109.4. 1
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 22. 110 Appendix K Section AK101. 1
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed
10/ 25/ 16)
16. 22 (2) Vista 9/ 8/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 24
California Mechanical Code
Sections:
16. 24.010 Adoption
Section 16.24.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 4, California Mechanical Code, as
published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this chapter. (Prior Code 6- 5; Ord. No. 91-
1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord.
No. 99- 12, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007-23, Amended,
11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20 Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016-
16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 24.020 Definitions
Prior Code 6- 5; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16.24.022 Chapter 1 Deleted
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed,
07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16. 24.024 Section 204 Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Added, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16.24.030 Section 304 Amended
Prior Code 6- 5. 1. 1; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95)
16. 24 (l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 26
California Energy Code Regulations
Sections:
16. 26.010 Adoption
16. 26.020 Purpose and Application
16. 26.030 Building Official Designated and Duties
16. 26.040 Solar Alternative Design Provisions
16. 26.050 Permit Fees
16. 26.060 Definitions
16. 26.070 Solar Energy System Regulations
16. 26.080 Permit Review
16. 26.090 Inspection Requirements
Section 16. 26.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 6, California Energy Code, as
published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Ord. No. 99- 12, Added, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002-20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007-23, Amended,
11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 20, Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. 2015- 16,
Amended 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.020 Purpose and Application
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.030 Building Official Designated and Duties
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.040 Solar Alternative Design Provisions
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.050 Permit Fees
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.060 Definitions
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.070 Solar Energy System Regulations
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26.080 Permit Review
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26 (l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
16. 26.090 Inspection Requirements
Ord. 2015- 16, Added 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Repealed, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 26 (2) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 28
California Electric Code
Sections:
16. 28.010 Adoption
Section 16. 28.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 3, California Electrical Code, as published
and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Prior Code 6- 6; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99-
12, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord. No. 2005- 10, Amended, 06/ 14/ 05;
Ord. No. 2007- 23, Amended, 11/ 13/07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20
Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16. 28.020 Section 90-4 Repealed
Prior Code 6- 6. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16.28.030 Article 95 Repealed
Prior Code 6- 6. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16.28.040 Section 336- 3 Repealed
Prior Code 6- 6. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
16. 28 (l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 30
California Green Building Standards Code
Sections:
16. 30.010 Adoption
Section 16. 30.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 11, California Green Building
Standards Code, as published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is
adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Ord. No. 2010- 17, Added, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20 Amended 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended,
10/ 25/ 16)
16. 30 ( l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 32
California Plumbing Code
Sections:
16. 32.010 Adoption
Section 16. 32.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 5, California Plumbing Code, as
published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is adopted by
reference and incorporated as if fully set forth in this chapter.
Prior Code 6- 7; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15,
Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Amended, 07/ 13/ 99; Ord. No. 2002-20, Amended, 09/ 24/ 02; Ord.
No. 2007-23, Amended, 11/ 13/07; Ord. No. 2010- 17, Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20 Amended
11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
Section 16.32.020 Definition of Administrative Authority
Prior Code 6- 7. 1; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16.32.030 Administration
Prior Code 6- 7. 1; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16. 32.040 Section 20.7 Amended
Prior Code 6- 7. 1. 3; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16. 32.050 Section 20. 15 Added to Part 1
Prior Code 6- 7. 1. 4; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16.32.060 Section 20.8 Amended
Prior Code 6- 7. 1. 4. 1; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16.32.070 Section 910 Amended
Prior Code 6- 7. 1. 5; Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 32.080 Section 414 Added to Chapter 4
Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16. 32.090 Appendix C, Note Ilb Amended
Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 99- 12, Repealed, 07/ 13/ 99)
Section 16.32. 100 Appendix Chapter E, Deleted
Ord. No. 95- 15, Repealed, 11/ 28/ 95)
16. 32 ( l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 34
California Referenced Standards Code
Sections:
16. 34.010 Adoption
Section 16.34.010 Adoption
The 2016 California Building Standards Code, Part 12, California Referenced Standards
Code, as published and adopted by the California Building Standards Commission, is adopted
by reference and incorporated as if fully set forth in this chapter. (Ord. No. 99- 12, Added, 07/ 13/ 99;
Ord. No. 2002- 20, Amended, 09/24/ 02; Ord. No. 2007-23, Amended, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 17,
Amended, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013-20, Amended, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 16, Amended, 10/ 25/ 16)
16. 34 ( l) Vista 1/ 1/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.36
Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code
Sections:
16. 36. 010 Adoption
16. 36. 020 Section 1. 17 Added
16. 36.030 Section 1. 11 Amended
16. 36.040 Section 1. 18 Replaced
Section 16. 36.010 Adoption
A. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and
Hot Tub Code, 1994 Edition, prepared and published by the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, except for Part I, are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if
fully set forth, except for the amendments and changes in this chapter.
B. In the event of any conflict or ambiguity between any provision contained in the
Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code and any amendment or addition thereto
contained of this chapter, the amendment or additions of this chapter shall control.
Prior code 6- 7A; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91, Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15,
Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 36.020 Section 1. 17 Added
Section 1. 17 of the Uniform Swimming Pool Code is added to read as follows:
Section 1. 17 Violations and Penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct enlarge, equip, use, occupy of maintain any building or structure
which was unlawful at the time it was constructed and which would be unlawful under the
Swimming Pool Code if constructed after the effective date of such codes, and shall constitute a
continuing violation of such code.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this administrative code
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any such
provisions as so adopted is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such
violations, such person shall be punishable in accordance with the provision of Section 1. 16. 010
of this code.
Prior code 6- 7A; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 36.030 Section 1. 11 Amended
Section 1. 11 of the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code is amended to read:
Section 1. 11 Cost of Permit. Every application for a permit to do work regulated by this
code shall state in writing on the application provided for that purpose, the character of the work
proposed to be done with such information pertinent thereto as may be required.
Such applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with the fees adopted by the Vista City
Council Resolution.
Any person who shall commence any swimming pool, spa or hot tub work for which a
permit is required by this code without having obtained a permit therefore shall, if subsequently
permitted to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fee fixed by the section for such work,
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to emergency work when it shall be
16. 36 ( l) Vista 4/ 8/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the administrative authority that such work was urgently
necessary and that it was not practical to obtain a permit therefore, before the commencement of
the work. In all such cases, a permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical to do so, and if
there is an unreasonable delay in obtaining such permit, a double fee as herein provided shall be
charged.
When extra inspections are necessary by reason of deficient or defective work, or
otherwise through fault or error on the part of the holder of the permit or on the part of his
employees, only one such extra inspection shall be made under the regular fee as herein
prescribed; and for each and every further extra visit or inspection for which the holder of the
permit or his employee is entirely responsible, the prescribed fee shall be paid.
Refund: In the event that any person shall have obtained a permit and no portion of the
work covered by such permit shall have been commenced and the permit has neither expired nor
been revoked nor suspended and the permittee, upon presentation to the building official of a
written request shall be entitled to a refund in an amount equal to 80 percent of the permit fee
actually paid for such permit, however, the portion of the fee returned shall never be less than
10. 00. In case a permit is issued in error by the building official, all fees will be returned to the
applicant upon request. No refund shall be granted when receipt of the request occurs more than
one year following payment of the permit fee.
Prior code 6- 7A. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91)
Section 16. 36.040 Section 1. 18 Replaced
Section 1. 18 of the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code is located in Section
16. 06. 040.
Prior code 6- 7A. 1; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91)
16. 36 ( 2) Vista 4/ 8/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 38
Solar Energy Code
Sections:
16. 38.010 Adoption
16. 38.020 Part II added
Section 16. 38.010 Adoption
A. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Uniform Solar Energy Code,
1994 Edition, prepared and published by the International Conference of Building Officials,
except for Part I, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth, subject to
the amendments and additions of this chapter.
B. In the event of any conflict or ambiguity between any provision contained in the
Uniform Solar Energy Code and any amendment or addition thereto contained in this chapter,
the amendment or addition shall control.
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 13, Amended, 07/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 95- 15, Amended,
11/ 28/ 95)
Section 16. 38.020 Part II Added
Part II of the Uniform Solar Energy Code is added to read as follows:
Violation and Penalties. Part II. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure which was
unlawful at the time it was constructed and which would be unlawful under the solar energy
code if constructed after the effective date of such codes, and shall constitute a continuing
violation of such code. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of the solar
energy code shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the solar energy code is
committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such violations, such person
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $ 1, 000 or by imprisonment for not more than six
months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
Ord. No. 91- 1, Enacted, 02/ 12/ 91)
16. 38 (l) Vista 4/ 8/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 40
FIRE CODE
Sections:
16. 40.010 Adoption of Fire Code
16. 40.020 Amendments
16. 40.030 Geographic Limits
Section 16.40.010 Adoption of Fire Code
The City Council of the chartered City of Vista, San Diego County, State of California,
adopts as the Fire Code for the City of Vista the following: the 2016 California Fire Code,
including the appendices I & N the 2015 International Fire Code ( IFC), and the National Fire
Protection Association Standards 13, 13- R & 13- D, 2016 Editions, together with the City's
amendments in this ordinance. This Fire Code is adopted for the protection of the public health
and safety. It includes definitions, provisions for the safeguarding of life and property from fire
and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of
buildings, requirements for permits and inspection for installing or altering systems, regulations
for the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion,
demolition, equipment use and maintenance of buildings and structures, including the
installation, alteration or repair of new and existing fire protection systems and their inspection
and provides penalties for violation of this code. Each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the City of Vista Fire Code on file in the office of the City of
Vista are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this Chapter,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Sections 16. 40. 010
through Section 16. 40. 030.
Prior Code 11- 1; Ord. No. 91- 31, Amended, 10/ 22/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 17, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99-
3, Amended, 06/ 08/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 21, Amended, 09/ 24/02; Ord. No. 2007-22, Repealed and
Replaced, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 18, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 21, Repealed
and Replaced, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 11/ 16)
Section 16.40.020 Amendments to the 2016 California Fire Code
The following sections and chapters of the 2016 California Fire Code are hereby revised:
SEC. 101. 5. VALIDITY.
Section 101. 5 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 101. 5 Validity. The City Council declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence or word of this chapter be declared invalid for any reason it is the intent of this City
Council that it would have passed all other portions of this chapter independently of any portion
that may be declared invalid.
SEC. 102. 13. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS OR MOTIONS.
Section 102. 13 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
16. 40 (l) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 102.13 Repeal of conflicting ordinances, resolutions or motions. All former
ordinances, resolutions or motions or parts thereof, conflicting or inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter are repealed.
SEC. 104.8. MODIFICATIONS.
Section 104. 8 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 104.8 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying
out the provisions of this code, the fire code official shall have the authority to grant
modifications for individual cases, provided the fire code official shall first find that special
individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impracticable and the modification is in
compliance with the intent and purpose of this code and that such modification does not
materially lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The applicant's request for a
modification shall state the specific sections( s) for which a modification is requested, material
facts supporting the contention of the applicant, the details of the modification or mitigating
measure proposed and, if applicable, a map showing the proposed location and siting of the
modification or mitigation measure. The details of action granting modifications shall be
recorded and entered into the files of the Fire Prevention Bureau.
SEC. 104.12. COST RECOVERY.
Section 104. 12 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 104. 12 Cost recovery. The purpose of this section is to establish authority to
obtain reimbursement from responsible individuals for the expenses of any emergency
response and/ or enforcement action by the fire department to protect the public from criminal or
negligent activities, and from fire or hazardous substances.
Sec. 104. 12. 1 Reimbursement required. In accordance with the Health and Safety
Code section 13000 et seq., an individual who acts negligently or in violation of the law and
thereby requires the jurisdiction to provide an emergency response to a danger posed by a fire
or hazardous substance shall be liable for reimbursement to the agency for the costs incurred.
In accordance with Government Code sections 53150 through 53158, any individual who is
under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or any drug or the combined influence of an
alcoholic beverage or any drug, and whose negligent operation of a motor vehicle, boat or
vessel or civil aircraft caused by that influence proximately causes any incident and thereby
requires the agency to provide an emergency response shall reimburse the agency for the cost
incurred.
SEC. 105. 3. 9. EXPENSE RECOVERY.
Section 105. 3. 9 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 105.3. 9 Expense recovery. The fire code official may impose a fee for recovery of
expenses incurred to enforce the fire prevention provisions of this code.
SEC. 105. 6. 6. 1. CHRISTMAS TREE LOTS.
Section 105. 6. 6. 1 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
16. 40 (2) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 105.6. 6. 1 Christmas tree lots. An operational permit is required to operate a
Christmas tree lot, with or without flame proofing services.
SEC. 105.6. 20.1. GREENWASTE RECYCLING, MULCHING, COMPOSTING
OPERATIONS AND STORAGE.
Section 105. 6. 20. 1 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 105.6. 20. 1 Greenwaste recycling, mulching, composting operations and
storage. An operational permit is required for greenwaste recycling, mulching, composting
operations and storage.
SEC. 105.8. NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH REQUIRE
PERMITS.
Section 105. 8 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 105.8 New materials, processes or occupancies which require permits. The
fire code official may determine, after allowing affected persons an opportunity to be heard, that
a material, process or occupancy, not listed in this code shall require a permit, in addition to
those now enumerated in this code. In that case, the fire code official shall prepare a list of any
additional material, process or occupancy that shall require a permit and post the list in a
conspicuous place in the offices of the fire authority having jurisdiction. Any interested person
may obtain a copy of the list.
SEC. 108. APPEALS.
Section 108 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 108. 1 Regional Fire Appeals Board established. In order to hear and decide
appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire code official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, including the granting or denial of modifications, there
shall be and is hereby created the Regional Fire Appeals Board ( Appeals Board). The Appeals
Board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code official. A copy shall
also be sent to the Building Official or other decision maker for the project, whichever is
appropriate.
Sec. 108.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the intent of this code or the rules legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent method of protection
or safety is proposed. The Appeals Board shall have no authority to waive requirements of this
code.
Sec. 108.3 Qualifications. The Appeals Board shall consist of members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to hazards of fire, explosions,
hazardous conditions or fire protection systems and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
16. 40 (3) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 108.4 Appeals procedures. This section establishes appeal procedures of an
order, decision or determination ( collectively, "determination") made by the fire code official,
including the granting or denial of appeals.
Sec. 108.4. 1 Appeals of determinations regarding building permits. The County,
fire agency or project applicant may appeal a determination made by the fire code official
related to a project for which a building permit is required by filing an appeal in writing with the
Appeals Board within 30 days of the fire code official' s final determination. The Appeals Board
shall make factual findings and issue a written recommendation to the County Building Official
on whether the fire code official' s determination should be upheld, overruled or modified. The
Building Official may not waive the requirements of this code, except as authorized by the code
and is subject to the same requirements and restrictions in the code that applied to the fire code
official. A copy of the recommendation shall be provided to the applicant. The County Building
Official shall act on the Appeals Board' s recommendation and issue a written decision to the
parties within 15 days of receipt of the Appeals Board' s recommendation. The Building Official' s
decision shall be final.
Sec. 108.4.2 Appeals of determinations regarding discretionary permits. The
County, the fire agency or the project applicant may seek review of the fire code official' s
determination by the Appeals Board by filing a request for review with the Appeals Board within
30 days of the fire code official' s determination. When reviewing a fire code official' s
determination pursuant to this subsection, the Appeals Board shall act in an advisory capacity.
The Appeals Board shall review the fire code official' s determination and make a
recommendation to uphold, overrule or modify the fire code official' s determination. The
Appeals Board shall render its recommendation to the County decision maker or decisionmaking
body for consideration with the application for the discretionary permit.
Sec. 108.4.3 Appeals of determinations for matters other than building permits or
discretionary permits. Any affected party may appeal a determination made by the fire code
official regarding a matter for which a building permit or discretionary permit is not required by
filing an appeal in writing with the City Clerk within 30 days of the fire code official' s final
determination. The appeal will be made to the City Manager, then the City Council, who shall
review the fire code official' s determination and make a recommendation to uphold, overrule or
modify the fire code official' s determination. The City Council' s determination shall be final.
Sec. 108.5 Regional Fire Appeals Board.
a) The Appeals Board members shall consist of the following:
Two representatives from the San Diego County Fire Districts Association.
Two chief officers from CAL FIRE.
One fire marshal from the unincorporated area of the County.
b) The Appeals Board shall not include a representative from the agency whose fire code
official made the determination that is being appealed. An alternate for the regular
member(s) of the Appeals Board shall be designated to serve in this situation.
c) Three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and three
affirmative votes shall be necessary to render a recommendation.
16. 40 (4) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
d) If the Appeals Board recommends a modification to this code for an individual case, a
copy of the recommendation and findings along with a map showing the proposed
modification and mitigating measures shall be forwarded to the Unit Chief of CAL FIRE,
San Diego/ Imperial Unit.
SEC. 109.4 VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
Section 109.4 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 109.4 Violations, penalties and responsibility for compliance. Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this code or standards hereby adopted or fail to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made there under, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement or specification or plans submitted and approved
there under, or any certificate or permit issued there under, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the attorney for
the City of Vista or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an infraction
or misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding $ 1, 000. 00 or by imprisonment in County
Jail not exceeding six (6) months, or both. The imposition of one penalty of any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate
offense.
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions.
SEC. 111. 4 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
Section 111. 4 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 111. 4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work, having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that the person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than $ 250.00 or more
than $ 1, 000. 00.
SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.
Section 202 of the California Fire Code is revised by adding or modifying the following
definitions:
AERATED STATIC PILE. A composting process that uses an air distribution system to
blow or draw air through the pile. Little or no pile agitation or turning is performed.
BLASTER. A person who has been approved by the Sheriff to conduct blasting
operations and who has been placed on the list of approved blasters. The listing shall
be valid for one year unless revoked by the Sheriff.
BLASTING AGENT. A material or mixture consisting of a fuel and oxidizer intended for
blasting. The finished product as mixed and packaged for use or shipment shall not be
detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined.
16. 40 (5) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
BLASTING OPERATION. The uses of an explosive device or explosive material to
destroy, modify, obliterate or remove any obstruction of any kind.
BLASTING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Issuing Officer pursuant to section
105. 6. 15. The permit shall apply to a specific site and shall be valid for a period not to
exceed one year.
BLAST SITE. The geographically defined area, as shown on a project map or plot plan,
where a blaster is authorized by a blasting permit issued under this section to conduct a
blasting operation.
CHIPPING AND GRINDING. An activity that mechanically reduces the size of organic
matter.
COMPOSTING OPERATION. An operation that is conducted for the purpose of
producing compost. The operation shall be by one or more of the following processes
used to produce a compost product: static pile, windrow pile or aerated static pile.
DEAD- END ROAD. A road that has only one point of vehicular ingress/ egress,
including cul- de- sacs and looped roads.
DISTANCE MEASUREMENT. All specified or referenced distances are measured
along the ground, unless otherwise stated.
EXPLOSIVES PERMIT. A permit to possess or use explosives, issued by the Issuing
Officer, pursuant to California Health and Safety Code sections 12000 et seq. and
Chapter 56 of this code. An explosives permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed
one year, as provided in the permit conditions.
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD. A road that provides fire apparatus access from a
fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general term that includes,
but is not limited to a fire lane, public street, private street, driveway, parking lot lane and
access roadway.
FIRE AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION ( FAHJ). The designated entity providing
enforcement of fire regulations as they relate to planning, construction and development.
The FAHJ may also provide fire suppression and other emergency services.
FIRE CHIEF. The fire chief is one of the following:
a) The person appointed by the Board of Supervisors to serve as fire chief in
the unincorporated areas not within a fire protection district.
b) The chief officer of a fire protection district.
c) The Fire Warden or her or his delegated representative when enforcing
section 5608. 1 of this Chapter.
d) The chief officer of the fire department serving the jurisdiction, or a duly
authorized representative.
16. 40 (6) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The fire chief or a duly authorized representative, or other
person as may be designated by law, appointment or delegation and charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code.
FIRE DEPARTMENT. Any regularly organized fire department, fire protection district,
fire company, or legally formed volunteer fire department registered with the County of
San Diego regularly charged with the responsibility of providing fire protection to a
jurisdiction.
FIRE HAZARD. Any condition or conduct which: ( a) increases or may increase the
threat of fire to a greater degree than customarily recognized as normal by persons in
the public service regularly engaged in preventing, suppressing or extinguishing fire or
b) may obstruct, delay, hinder or interfere with the operations of the fire department or
the egress of occupants in the event of fire.
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT. Any fire protection district created under State law and
any water district providing fire protection services.
FUEL MODIFICATION ZONE. A strip of land where combustible vegetation has been
thinned or modified or both and partially or totally replaced with approved fire- resistant
and/ or irrigated plants to provide an acceptable level of risk from vegetation fires. Fuel
modification reduces the radiant and convective heat on a structure and provides
valuable defensible space for firefighters to make an effective stand against an
approaching fire front.
GREENWASTE. Organic material that includes, but is not limited to, yard trimmings,
plant waste, manure, untreated wood wastes, paper products and natural fiber products.
HAZARDOUS FIRE AREA. Any geographic area mapped by the State or designated
by a local jurisdiction as a moderate, high or very high fire hazard area or which the
FAHJ has determined is a hazardous fire area, because the type and condition of
vegetation, topography, weather and structure density increase the probability that the
area will be susceptible to a wildfire.
HOGGED MATERIALS. Mill waste consisting mainly of hogged bark but may include a
mixture of bark, chips, dust or other by- product from trees and vegetation.
INSPECTOR. For the purposes of sections 5601. 2, an inspector is a person on the
Issuing Officer' s approved list of inspectors authorized to conduct inspections, before
and after a blast. To be on the Issuing Officer' s approved list, an inspector shall have a
blasting license issued by Cal/ OSHA.
MAJOR BLASTING. A blasting operation that does not meet the criteria for minor
blasting.
MID- RISE BUILDING. A building four or more stories high, but not exceeding 75 feet in
height and not defined as a high- rise building by section 202 of the California Building
Code. Measurements shall be made from the underside of the roof or floor above the
topmost space that may be occupied to the lowest fire apparatus access road level.
16. 40 (7) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
MINOR BLASTING. A blasting operation that meets all of the following criteria: quantity
of rock to be blasted does not exceed 100 cubic yards per shot, bore hole diameter does
not exceed 2 inches, hole depth does not exceed 12 feet, maximum charge weight does
not exceed 8 pounds of explosives per delay and the initiation of each charge will be
separated by at least 8 milliseconds. The maximum charge weight shall not exceed the
Scaled Distance as shown below:
Distance from Blast Site Scale- Distance
In Feet) Factor
0 - 300................................................ Mandatory Seismic Monitoring
301 - 5, 000...................................................... 55
5, 000.................................................................. 65
MULCHING. The process by which mixed greenwaste is mechanically reduced in size
for the purpose of making compost.
RESPONSE TIME. The elapsed time from the fire department' s receipt of the first alarm
to when the first fire unit arrives at the scene.
STATIC PILE. A composting process that is similar to the aerated static pile except that
the air source may or may not be controlled.
STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or
any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some
manner.
TRAVEL TIME. The estimated time it would take for a responding agency to travel from
the fire station to the furthest structure in a proposed development project, determined
by measuring the safest, most direct, appropriate and reliable route with consideration
given to safe operating speeds for heavy fire apparatus.
WINDROW COMPOSTING PROCESS. The process in which compostable material is
placed in elongated piles. The piles or windrows are aerated and/ or mechanically turned
on a periodic basis.
WOOD CHIPS. Chips of various species of wood produced or used in chipping and
grinding operations.
SEC. 304. 1. 4. OUTDOOR CARNIVALS AND FAIRS.
Section 304. 1. 4 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 304. 1. 4 Outdoor carnivals and fairs. Outdoor carnivals and fairs shall only be
conducted on grounds free of combustible vegetation or trimmed to the satisfaction of the FAHJ.
SEC. 305. 6. ROCKETS, MODEL AIRCRAFT AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
Section 305. 6 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
16. 40 (8) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 305.6 Rockets, model aircraft and similar devices. Rockets, model airplanes,
gliders, balloons, sky lanterns, floating luminary or similar devices powered with an engine,
propellant, open flame or other feature liable to start or cause a fire shall not be projected into or
across hazardous fire areas without prior approval of the fire code official.
SEC. 307. 5. ATTENDANCE OF OPEN BURNING AND RECREATIONAL FIRES.
Section 307. 5 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 307.5 Attendance. Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires and the use of
portable outdoor fireplaces shall be constantly attended by an adult until the fire is extinguished.
A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher complying with section 906 with a minimum 4-A
rating or other approved on- site fire- extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel,
garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.
SEC. 320. MID- RISE BUILDINGS.
Section 320 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
SECTION 320
MID- RISE BUILDINGS
Sec 320. 1 General. A newly constructed mid- rise building or a mid- rise building which
undergoes a complete renovation that requires the building to be completely vacated shall
comply with this section.
Exceptions:
1. Buildings used exclusively as an open parking garage.
2. Buildings where all floors above the fourth floor level are used exclusively as an
open parking garage.
3. Buildings such as a power plant, lookout tower, steeple, grain house, and other
similar structures with intermittent human occupancy.
Sec. 320. 1. 1 Automatic fire sprinkler systems and standpipes. Mid- rise buildings
shall be protected throughout by an automatic fire sprinkler system designed and installed in
conformance with the latest edition of NFPA 13 and in accordance with the following:
1. A shut-off valve and a water flow alarm shall be provided for each floor. Each shutoff
valve and water flow alarm shall be electronically supervised.
2. Mid- rise buildings shall be provided with a class I standpipe system that is
interconnected with the automatic fire sprinkler system. The system shall consist of
2'/ 2- inch hose valves located in each stair enclosure on every floor. Two hose outlets
shall be located on the roof outside of each stair enclosure which penetrates the roof.
The standpipe system shall be designed, installed and tested in accordance with the
latest edition of NFPA 14.
16. 40 (9) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Fire department standpipe connections and valves serving each floor shall be
located in the vestibule and located in a manner so as not to obstruct egress when
hose lines are connected and charged.
Sec. 320. 1. 2 Smoke detection. Smoke detectors shall be provided in accordance with
this section. Smoke detectors shall be connected to an automatic fire alarm system and shall
be installed in accordance with the latest edition of NFPA 72. The actuation of any device
required by this section shall operate the emergency voice alarm signal system and shall
operate all equipment necessary to prevent the circulation of smoke through air return and
exhaust ductwork. Smoke detectors shall be located as follows:
1. In every mechanical equipment, electrical, transformer, telephone equipment,
unmanned computer equipment, elevator machinery or similar room and in all
elevator lobbies. Elevator lobby detectors shall be connected to an alarm
verification zone or be listed as a releasing device.
2. In the main return air and exhaust air plenum of each air conditioning system. The
smoke detector shall be located in a serviceable area downstream of the last duct
inlet.
3. At each connection to a vertical duct or riser serving two or more stories from a
return air duct or plenum of an air conditioning system. In Group R, Division 1 and
2 occupancies, an approved smoke detector is allowed to be used in each return air
riser carrying not more than 5,000 cubic feet per minute and not serving more than
10 air inlet openings.
4. For Group R, Division 1 and 2 occupancies, in all corridors serving as a means of
egress for an occupant load of 10 or more persons.
Sec. 320. 1. 3 Fire alarm system. An approved and listed, automatic and manual, fully
addressable and electronically-supervised fire alarm system shall be provided in conformance
with this code and the California Building Code.
Sec. 320. 1. 4 Emergency voice alarm signaling system. The operation of any
automatic fire detector or water flow device shall automatically sound an alert tone followed by a
pre- recorded voice instruction giving appropriate information and direction on a general or
selective basis to the following terminal areas:
1. Elevators
2. Elevator lobbies
3. Corridors
4. Exit stairways
5. Rooms and tenant spaces
6. Dwelling units
7. Hotel guest rooms
8. Areas designated as safe refuge within the building
Sec. 320. 1. 5 Fire command center. A fire command center for fire department
operations shall be provided. The location and accessibility of the fire command center shall be
approved by the fire department. The room shall be separated from the remainder of the
16. 40 ( 10) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
building by not less than a 1- hour fire barrier. The room shall be a minimum of 200 square feet
with a minimum dimension of 10 feet. It shall contain the following facilities at a minimum:
1. Voice alarm and public address panels
2. Fire department communications panel
3. Fire alarm enunciator panel
4. Elevator enunciator panel (when building exceeds 55 feet in height)
5. Status indicators and controls for air- handling systems ( stairwell pressurization)
6. Controls for unlocking stairwell doors
7. Fire pump status indicators ( if required)
8. Set of complete building plans
9. Elevator control switches for switching of emergency power
10. Work table
Sec. 320. 1. 6 Annunciation identification. Control panels in the central control station
shall be permanently identified as to their function. Water flow, automatic fire detection and
manually- activated fire alarms, and supervisory and trouble signals shall be monitored by an
approved UL- listed central monitoring station and annunciated in the fire command center by
means of an audible and visual indicator. For the purposes of annunciation, zoning shall be in
accordance with the following:
1. When the system serves more than one building, each building shall be a separate
zone.
2. Each floor in a building shall be a separate zone.
3. When one or more risers serve the same floor, each riser shall be a separate zone.
Sec. 320. 1. 7 Elevators. Elevators and elevator lobbies shall comply with Chapter 30 of
the California Building Code. At least one elevator cab shall be assigned for fire department
use, and shall serve all floors of the building. This cab shall be provided large enough to
accommodate an ambulance-type stretcher in accordance with section 3002. 4 of the California
Building Code.
Sec. 320. 1. 8 Fire department communication system. An approved two-way fire
department communication system designed and installed in accordance with the latest edition
of NFPA 72 shall be provided for fire department use per section 907. 2. 13. 2.
Sec. 320. 1. 9 Means of egress. In addition to the requirements of Chapter 10, egress
components of mid- rise buildings shall comply with sections 320. 1. 8. 1 through 320. 1. 8. 5.
Sec. 320. 1. 9. 1 Extent of enclosure. Stairway enclosures shall be continuous and shall
fully enclose all portions of the stairway. Exit enclosures shall exit directly to the exterior of the
building or include an exit passageway on the ground floor leading to the exterior of the building.
Each exit enclosure shall extend completely through the roof and be provided with a door that
leads onto the roof.
Sec. 320. 1. 9. 2 Pressurized enclosures and stairways. All required stairways and
enclosures in a mid- rise building shall be pressurized as specified in section 909. Pressurized
stairways shall be designed to exhaust smoke manually when needed.
16. 40 ( 11) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 320. 1. 9. 3 Vestibules. Pressurized stairway enclosures serving a mid- rise building
shall be provided with a pressurized entrance vestibule on each floor that complies with section
909.
Sec. 320. 1. 9.4 Pressure differences. The minimum pressure difference between a
vestibule and adjacent areas shall comply with section 909.
Sec. 320. 1. 9. 5 Locking of stairway doors. All stairway doors that are locked to
prohibit access from the interior of the stairway shall have the capability of being unlocked
simultaneously, without unlatching, upon a signal from the fire command center. Upon failure of
normal electrical service or activation of any fire alarm, the locking mechanism shall
automatically retract to the unlocked position.
A telephone or other two-way communication system connected to an approved
emergency service which operates continuously shall be provided at not less than every third
floor in each required exit stairway vestibule.
Approved signage stating doors are locked shall be provided in each stairwell vestibule
on each floor in which entry may be made and on each floor in which a telephone is located.
Hardware for locking stairway vestibule doors shall be State Fire Marshal listed and approved
by the chief by permit before installation. Stairway doors located between the vestibules and
the stairway shaft shall not be locked.
SEC. 321. STORAGE OF FIREWOOD.
Section 321 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
SECTION 321
STORAGE OF FIREWOOD
Sec. 321. 1 General. Firewood shall not be stored in unenclosed space beneath a
building or structure, on a deck or under eaves, a canopy or other projection or overhang.
When required by the fire code official, firewood or other combustible material stored in the
defensible space surrounding a structure shall be located at least 30 feet from any structure and
separated from the crown of any trees by a minimum of 15 feet, measured horizontally.
Firewood and combustible materials not for use on the premises shall be stored so as to not
pose a fire hazard.
SEC. 501. 3. 1. FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS MODIFICATIONS.
Section 501. 3. 1 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 501. 3. 1 Fire apparatus access modifications. Plans for the modification of fire
apparatus access road shall be submitted to the fire code official for review and approval prior to
construction or modification of any fire apparatus road.
SEC. 503. FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS
Section 503 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
16. 40 ( 12) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
SECTION 503
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS
Sec. 503. 1 General. Fire apparatus access roads, including private residential
driveways, shall be required for every building hereafter constructed when any portion of an
exterior wall of the first story is located more than 150 feet from the closest point of fire
department vehicle access.
Fire apparatus access roads, except private residential driveways, shall be provided and
maintained for purposes of rapid and reliable fire apparatus access and for unobstructed traffic
circulation for evacuation or relocation of civilians during a wildfire or other emergency.
Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained in compliance with this section
and the most recent edition and any amendments thereto, of public and private road standards
as adopted by the County of San Diego ( San Diego County Standards for Private Roads and
Public Roads, San Diego County Department of Public Works). The fire code official may
modify the requirements of this section if the modification provides equivalent access.
Sec. 503. 1. 1 Buildings and facilities. Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be
provided for every facility, building or portion of building hereafter constructed or moved into or
within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of this
section and shall extend within 150 feet of all portions of the facility and all portions of the
exterior walls of the first story of the building as measured by an approved route around the
exterior of the building or facility.
Exceptions: The fire code official may increase the 150 foot minimum where:
1. Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of topography,
waterways, nonnegotiable grades or other similar conditions, and an approved
alternative means of fire protection is provided.
2. There are no more than two Group R- 3 or Group U occupancies.
Sec. 503. 1. 2 Additional access. The fire code official is authorized to require more
than one fire apparatus access road based on the potential for impairment of a single road by
vehicle congestion, condition of terrain, climatic conditions or other factors that could limit
access. When additional fire apparatus access roads are necessary as mitigation for the
exceedance of the maximum allowable dead- end road length, the additional fire apparatus
access road must be remote from the primary fire apparatus access road.
Sec. 503. 1. 3 Dead- end roads. The maximum length of a dead- end road, including all
dead- end roads accessed from that dead- end road, shall not exceed the following cumulative
lengths, regardless of the number of parcels served:
ZONING FOR PARCEL SERVED CUMULATIVE LENGTH
BY DEAD- END ROAD(s) OF DEAD- END ROAD( s)
Parcels zoned for less than 1 acre 800 feet
Parcels zoned for 1 acre to 4. 99 acres 1, 320 feet
Parcels zoned for 5 acres to 19. 99 acres 2, 640 feet
Parcels zoned for 20 acres or larger 5, 280 feet
16. 40 ( 13) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
All lengths shall be measured from the edge of the roadway surface at the intersection where
the road begins to the end of the road surface at its farthest point. Where a dead- end road
crosses areas of differing zoned parcel sizes, requiring different length limits, the shortest
allowable length shall apply. Where parcels are zoned 5 acres or larger, turnarounds shall be
provided at a maximum of 1, 320 foot intervals. Each dead- end road shall have a turnaround
approved by the fire code official and constructed at its terminus.
Sec. 503. 1. 4 High- piled storage. Fire department vehicle access to buildings used for
high- piled combustible storage shall comply with the applicable provisions of Chapter 32.
Sec. 503.2 Specifications. Fire apparatus access roads shall be installed and arranged
in compliance with sections 503.2. 1 through 503.2. 8.
Sec. 503.2. 1 Dimensions. The dimensions of fire apparatus access roads shall be in
accordance with the following:
a) Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed improved width of not
less than 24 feet, except for single- family residential driveways serving no more than two singlefamily
dwellings, which shall have a minimum of 16 feet of unobstructed improved width. Any of
the following, which have separated lanes of one-way traffic: gated entrances with card readers,
guard stations or center medians, are allowed, provided that each lane is not less than 14 feet
wide.
b) Fire apparatus access roads that are public or private roads which are provided
or improved as a result of a Tentative Map, Tentative Parcel Map or a Major/ Minor Use Permit
shall have the dimensions as set forth by the County of San Diego Standards for Public and
Private Roads.
c) All fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed vertical clearance of
not less than 13 feet 6 inches.
d) Vertical clearances or road widths shall be increased when the fire code official
determines that vertical clearances or road widths are not adequate to provide fire apparatus
access.
e) Vertical clearances or road width may be reduced when the fire code official
determines the reduction does not impair access by fire apparatus. In cases where the vertical
clearance has been reduced, approved signs shall be installed and maintained indicating the
amount of vertical clearance.
f) The standard cross- slope shall be 2 percent; minimum cross- slope shall be 1
percent; maximum cross- slope shall be 5 percent.
Sec. 503.2. 2 Authority to increase minimums. The fire code official shall have the
authority to require or permit modifications to the required access widths where they are
inadequate for fire or rescue operations or where necessary to meet the public safety objectives
of the jurisdiction.
Sec. 503.2. 3 Surface. Fire apparatus access road shall be designed and maintained to
support the imposed loads of fire apparatus ( not less than 75,000 lbs. unless authorized by the
FAHJ) and shall be provided with an approved paved surface so as to provide all- weather
16. 40 ( 14) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
driving capabilities. The paving and sub- base shall be installed to the standards specified in the
County of San Diego Parking Design Manual. A residential driveway constructed of 3'/ 2"
Portland cement concrete may be installed on any slope up to 20% provided that slopes over
15% have a deep broom finish perpendicular to the direction of travel or other approved surface
to enhance traction.
Sec. 503.2.4 Roadway radius. The horizontal inside radius of a fire apparatus access
road shall comply with the County public and private road standards approved by the Board of
Supervisors. The horizontal inside radius for a private residential driveway shall be a minimum
of 28 feet, as measured on the inside edge of the improvement width or as approved by the fire
code official. The length of vertical curves of fire apparatus access roads shall not be less than
100 feet, or as approved by the fire code official.
Sec. 503.2. 5 Dead ends. All dead-end fire access roads in excess of 150 feet in length
shall be provided with approved provisions for turning around emergency apparatus. A cul- desac
shall be provided in residential areas where the access roadway serves more than 2
structures. The minimum unobstructed radius width for a cul- de- sac in a residential area shall
be 36 feet paved, 40 feet graded, or as approved by the fire code official. The fire code official
shall establish a policy identifying acceptable turnarounds for various project types.
Sec. 503.2. 6 Bridges and elevated surfaces. Where a bridge or an elevated surface is
part of a fire apparatus access road, the bridge shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with AASHTO HB- 17. Bridges and elevated surfaces shall be designed for alive
load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus. Vehicle load limits and clearance
limitations shall be posted at both entrances to bridges when required by the fire code official.
Where elevated surfaces designed for emergency vehicle use are adjacent to surfaces which
are not designed for such use, approved barriers, approved signs or both shall be installed and
maintained when required by the fire code official.
Sec. 503.2. 6. 1 Bridges with one traffic lane. When approved by the fire code official,
private bridges providing access to not more than two residential dwellings may have one 12
foot wide travel lane; however, it shall provide for unobstructed visibility from one end to the
other, and turnouts shall be provided at both ends.
Sec. 503.2. 7 Grade. The gradient for a fire apparatus access roadway shall not exceed
15. 0%. The fire code official may allow roadway grades up to 20.0% provided that the roadway
surface conforms to section 503.2. 3. The fire code official may require additional mitigation
measures where deemed appropriate. The angle of departure and angle of approach of a fire
access roadway shall not exceed 7 degrees ( 12 percent) or as approved by the fire code official.
Sec. 503.2. 8 Roadway turnouts. When required by the fire code official, turnouts shall
be a minimum of 12 feet wide and 30 feet long with a minimum 25 foot taper on each end.
Exception: The minimum width of the turnout may be reduced to 10 feet wide when the
fire code official determines the reduction does not impair access by fire apparatus.
Sec. 503.3 Marking. When required by the fire code official, approved signs or other
approved notices shall be provided for fire apparatus access roads to identify such roads or
prohibit the obstruction thereof. Signs or notices shall be maintained in a clean and legible
condition at all times and be replaced or repaired when necessary to provide adequate visibility.
All new public roads, all private roads within major subdivisions and all private road easements
16. 40 ( 15) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
serving four or more parcels shall be named. Road name signs shall comply with County of
San Diego Department of Public Works Design Standard # DS- 13.
Sec. 503.3. 1 Fire lane designation. Where the fire code official determines that it is
necessary to ensure adequate fire access, the fire code official may designate existing
roadways as fire access roadways as provided by Vehicle Code section 22500. 1.
Sec. 503.4 Obstruction of fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads
shall not be obstructed in any manner, including the parking of vehicles. The minimum road
widths and clearances established in sections 503. 2. 1 and 503. 2. 2 shall be maintained at all
times.
Sec. 503.4. 1 Traffic calming devices. Traffic calming devices ( including, but not
limited to, speed bumps, speed humps, speed control dips, etc.) shall be prohibited unless
approved by the fire code official.
Sec. 503. 5 Required gates or barricades. The fire code official is authorized to require
the installation and maintenance of gates or other approved barricades across fire apparatus
access roads, trails or other access ways, not including public streets, alleys or highways.
Electric gate openers, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates
intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed and installed to comply with the
requirements of ASTM F2200.
Sec. 503. 5. 1 Secured gates and barricades. When required, gates and barricades
shall be secured as approved by the fire code official. Roads, trails and other access ways that
have been closed and obstructed in the manner prescribed by section 503.5 shall not be
trespassed on or used unless authorized by the owner and the fire code official.
Exception: The restriction on use shall not apply to public officers acting within the
scope of duty.
Sec. 503. 5. 2 School fences and gates. School grounds may be fenced and gates
therein may be equipped with locks, provided that safe dispersal areas based on three square
feet per occupant are located between the school and the fence. Such required safe dispersal
areas shall not be located less than 50 feet from school buildings.
Every public and private school shall conform to Education Code section 32020, which
states:
The governing board of every public school district and the governing authority of every
private school, which maintains any building used for the instruction or housing of school pupils
on land entirely enclosed ( except for building walls) by fences or walls, shall, through the
cooperation of local law enforcement and fire protection agencies having jurisdiction of the area,
provide for the erection of gates in these fences or walls. The gates shall be of sufficient size to
permit the entrance of ambulances, police equipment and fire- fighting apparatus used by law
enforcement and fire protection agencies. There shall be no less than one access gate and
there shall be as many of these gates as needed to ensure access to all major buildings and
ground areas. If these gates are equipped with locks, the locking devices shall be designed to
permit ready entrance by the use of chain or bolt- cutting devices.
16. 40 ( 16) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 503.6 Security gates. No person shall install a security gate or security device
across a fire access roadway without the fire code official' s approval.
1. An automatic gate across a fire access roadway or driveway shall be equipped with
an approved emergency key-operated switch overriding all command functions and
opening the gate.
2. A gate accessing more than four residences or residential lots or a gate accessing
hazardous institutional, educational or assembly occupancy group structure, shall
also be equipped with an approved emergency traffic control- activating strobe light
sensor or other device approved by the fire code official, which will activate the gate
on the approach of emergency apparatus.
3. An automatic gate shall be provided with a battery back- up or manual mechanical
disconnect in case of power failure.
4. An automatic gate shall meet fire department policies deemed necessary by the fire
code official for rapid, reliable access.
5. When required by the fire code official, an automatic gate in existence at the time of
adoption of this chapter is required to install an approved emergency key-operated
switch or other mechanism approved by the fire code official, at an approved
location, which overrides all command functions and opens the gate. A property
owner shall comply with this requirement within 90 days of receiving written notice to
comply.
6. Where this section requires an approved key-operated switch, it may be dual- keyed
or equipped with dual switches provided to facilitate access by law enforcement
personnel.
7. All gates providing access from a road to a driveway shall be located a minimum of
30 feet from the nearest edge of the roadway and shall be at least two feet wider
than the width of the traffic lane(s) serving the gate.
8. Electric gate openers, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325.
Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed and installed
to comply with the requirements of ASTM F2200.
SEC. 505. PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.
Section 505 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 505
PREMISES IDENTIFICATION
Sec. 505. 1 Address numbers. Approved numbers and/ or addresses shall be placed on
all new and existing buildings and at appropriate additional locations, plainly visible and legible
from the street or roadway fronting the property when approaching from either direction. The
numbers shall contrast with their background and shall meet the following minimum size
standards: 4" high with a '/ 2" stroke for residential buildings, 6" high with a '/ 2" stroke for
commercial and multi- residential buildings and 12" high with a 1" stroke for industrial buildings.
Additional numbers shall be required where deemed necessary by the fire code official, such as
rear access doors, building corners and entrances to commercial centers. The fire code official
may establish different minimum sizes for numbers for various categories of projects. Address
identification shall be maintained.
Sec. 505.2 Street or road signs. Streets and roads shall be identified with approved
signs. Temporary signs shall be installed at each street intersection when construction of new
16. 40 ( 17) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
roadways allows passage by vehicles. Signs shall be of an approved size, weather-resistant
and be maintained until replaced by permanent signs.
Sec. 505.2. 1 Traffic Access Limitations. Signs identifying traffic access limitations
shall be placed at the intersection preceding the traffic access limitation, and no more than 100
feet before such traffic access limitation.
Sec. 505.3 Easement address signs. A road easement which is not named differently
from the roadway from which it originates shall have an address sign installed and maintained
listing all street numbers occurring on that easement. The sign shall be located where the
easement intersects the named roadway. The numbers on the sign shall contrast with the
background and have a minimum height of 4" and a minimum stroke of 1/ 2".
Sec. 505.4 Directory map. A lighted directory map, meeting current fire department
standards, shall be installed at the driveway entrance to a residential project or a mobile home
park, with more than 15 units.
Sec. 505. 5 Response map updates. Any new development which necessitates
updating emergency response maps due to new structures, hydrants, roadways or similar
features shall be required to provide map updates in a format compatible with current
department mapping services and shall be charged a reasonable fee for updating all response
maps.
SEC. 506. 1. 3. EMERGENCY KEY ACCESS.
Section 506. 1. 3 is added to the California Fire Code portion to read:
Sec. 506. 1. 3 Emergency key access. All central station- monitored fire detection
systems and fire sprinkler systems shall have an approved emergency key access box on site in
an approved location. The owner or occupant shall provide and maintain current keys for any
structure for fire department placement in the box and shall notify the fire department in writing
when the building is re- keyed.
SEC. 507. 2. TYPE OF WATER SUPPLY.
Section 507. 2 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 507.2 Type of water supply. Water supply may consist of reservoirs, pressure
tanks, elevated tanks, water mains or other fixed systems, as approved by the fire code official,
capable of providing the required fire flow in a reliable manner. In setting the requirements for
fire flow, the fire code official shall follow section 507. 3 or Appendix B of the California Fire
Code, or the standard published by the Insurance Services Office, " Guide for Determination of
Required Fire Flow".
Sec. 507.2. 1 Private fire service mains. Private fire service mains and appurtenances
shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 24 as amended in Chapter 80.
Sec. 507.2. 2 Water tanks. Water tanks for private residential fire protection, when
authorized by the fire code official, shall comply with Table 507. 2. 2 and installed in accordance
with NFPA 22. Water tanks for commercial fire protection, when authorized by the fire code
official, shall be sized utilizing nationally- recognized standards.
16. 40 ( 18) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
TABLE 507. 2. 2
RESIDENTIAL WATER TANK REQUIREMENTS
Building Gallons Per Minute Capacity Duration
Square Feet Water Flow Gallons Minutes
Up to 1, 500 250 5, 000 20
Over 1, 500 250 10, 000 40
When the exposure distance is one hundred feet ( 100') or less from an adjacent
property, or where additional hazards or higher fire flow exists, the required water
storage may be modified by the fire code official.
1. Tank bottom elevation shall be equal to or higher than the fire department connection
on the premises. Regardless of domestic use, all tanks shall be equipped with a device that will
ensure that the tank contains the designated amount of water for fire flow duration as
determined by the FAHJ. Tank size may be increased to serve multiple structures on a single
parcel.
2. Supply outlet shall be at least 4 inches in diameter from the base of the tank to the
point of outlet at the fire department connection. The fire department connection shall have an
approved means of controlling water flow. The fire department connection shall be at least one
4- inch National Standard Thread ( male), reduced to one 2'/ 2 inch National Standard Thread
male). Additional outlets may be required.
3. Location of fire department outlet shall be shown on the plot plan when submitted to
the FAHJ. Consideration will be given to topography, elevations, and distance from structures,
driveway access, prevailing winds, etc.
4. The outlet shall be located along a fire apparatus access roadway and shall not be
closer than 50 feet or further than 150 feet from the structure.
5. All exposed tank supply pipes shall be of an alloy or other material listed for above
ground use. Adequate support shall be provided.
6. Water storage tanks shall be constructed from materials allowed by NFPA 22 and
installed per manufacturer recommendations.
7. The fire code official may require any necessary information to be submitted on a plot
plan for approval.
8. Vessels previously used for products other than water shall not be allowed.
9. The bottom of the water storage tank shall be level with or above the building pad.
SEC. 507. 3. FIRE FLOW.
Section 507. 3 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 507.3 Fire flow. Fire flow requirements shall be based on Appendix B of the
California Fire Code or the standard published by the Insurance Services Office, " Guide for
16. 40 ( 19) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Determination of Required Fire Flow." Consideration should be given to increasing the gallons
per minute to protect structures of extremely large square footage and for such reasons as: poor
access roads, grade and canyon rims, hazardous brush and response times greater than five
minutes by a recognized fire department or fire suppression company. In hazardous fire areas
the main capacity for new subdivisions shall not be less than 2, 500 gallons per minute, unless
otherwise approved by the fire code official. If fire flow increases are not feasible, the fire code
official may require alternative design standards such as: alternative types of construction that
provides a higher level of fire resistance, fuel break requirements, which may include required
irrigation, modified access road requirements, specified setback distances for building sites
addressing canyon rim developments and hazardous brush areas, and other requirements as
authorized by this chapter and as required by the fire code official.
SEC. 507. 5.7. FIRE HYDRANT AND FIRE VALVE LOCATION.
Section 507.5. 7 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 507.5. 7 Fire hydrant and fire valve location. The fire hydrant or fire valve shall
be between 18 to 24 inches above grade, no closer than 4 feet nor further than 12 feet from the
roadway, and 8 feet from combustible vegetation.
Sec. 507.5. 7. 1 Signing of fire hydrants. The fire code official shall require fire
hydrants to be identified. Fire hydrants may be identified by a reflectorized blue marker with a
minimum dimension of 3 inches, in the center of the travel lane adjacent the water source, or by
other methods approved by the fire code official.
SEC. 507. 5.8. FIRE HYDRANT CONSTRUCTION AND CONFIGURATION.
Section 507.5. 8 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 507.5. 8 Fire hydrant construction and configuration.
All materials shall be listed and approved by the water purveyor and/ or fire code official.
The fire code official may require a fire hydrant to have any combination of 4 inch and 2'/ 2 inch
outlets with National Standard Threads.
SEC. 507. 5.9. WATERLINE EXTENSIONS.
Section 507.5. 9 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 507.5. 9 Waterline extensions. The fire code official may require a waterline
extension for the purpose of installing a fire hydrant if a water main is 1, 500 feet or less from the
property line.
SEC. 603. 6. 6. SPARK ARRESTERS.
Section 603.6. 6 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 603.6. 6 Spark arresters. All structures having a chimney, flue or stovepipe
attached to a fireplace, stove, barbecue or other solid or liquid fuel burning equipment or device
shall have the chimney, flue or stovepipe equipped with an approved spark arrester. An
approved spark arrester is a device intended to prevent sparks from escaping into the
atmosphere, constructed of welded or woven wire mesh, 12 gauge thickness or larger, with
16. 40 ( 20) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
openings no greater than '/ 2 inch, or other alternative material the FAHJ determines provides
equal or better protection.
SEC. 603. 8. 1. RESIDENTIAL INCINERATORS.
Section 603.8. 1 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 603.8. 1 Residential Incinerators. Residential incinerators are prohibited in the
unincorporated area of the County.
SEC. 605. 11. 3.3 SMOKE VENTILATION.
Section 605. 11. 3. 3 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 605. 11. 3. 3 Smoke ventilation. The solar photovoltaic installation shall be
designed to meet the following requirements:
1. Arrays shall be no greater than 150 feet in length in either axis in order to create
opportunities for smoke ventilation operations.
2. Smoke ventilation options between array sections shall be one of the following:
a. A pathway 8 feet or greater in width.
b. A 4- foot or greater in width pathway and bordering roof skylights or gravityoperated
dropout smoke and heat vents.
c. A 4- foot or greater in width pathway and bordering all sides of nongravityoperated
dropout smoke and heat vents.
d. A 4- foot or greater in width pathway and bordering 4-foot by 8- foot venting
cutouts every 20 feet on alternating sides of the pathway.
The fire code official may require additional means of ventilating a building including the
installation of a manually-operated ventilation system.
SEC. 605. 11. 2 GROUND-MOUNTED PHOTOVOLTAIC ARRAYS.
Section 605. 11. 2 the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 605. 11. 2 Ground- mounted photovoltaic arrays. Ground- mounted photovoltaic
array installations shall meet the requirements of sections 605. 11. 2. 1 through 605. 11. 2. 4.
Sec. 605. 11. 2. 1 Fire apparatus access roads. Fire apparatus access roads to groundmounted
photovoltaic arrays, associated equipment structures and operations/ maintenance
buildings shall comply with section 503.
Exception: Private residential and agricultural systems less than 10 acres in size and
where the energy generated is primarily for on- site use are exempt from this
requirement.
Sec. 605. 11. 2. 1. 1 Perimeter fire apparatus access roadway. Ground- mounted
photovoltaic arrays 10 acres or larger in size shall provide a fire apparatus access roadway
around the perimeter of the project. The perimeter fire apparatus access roadway shall comply
with section 503.
16. 40 ( 21) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 605. 11. 2. 2 Fuel modification. Combustible vegetation within the array and to a
distance of 30 feet from the array and associated equipment shall be reduced to a height of no
more than 6 inches. The fuel modification zone may be increased when required by the fire
code official or as recommend by a fire protection plan.
Exception: For private residential and agricultural systems less than 10 acres in size
and where the energy generated is used primarily on- site, the required fuel modification
zone may be reduced to 10 feet from the array and associated equipment.
Operation/ maintenance buildings shall be provided with fuel modification zones that comply with
section 4907. 2.
Sec. 605. 11. 2. 3 Water supply. Water supply for fire protection and suppression shall
be provided for equipment structures and operations/ maintenance buildings as required by
section 507.
Sec. 605. 11. 2.4 Identification. Ground- mounted photovoltaic arrays with multiple
equipment structures shall include a means of readily identifying each equipment structure. The
fire code official may require a lighted directory map of the project to be installed on- site near
the entrance to the facility for projects of 10 or more acres in size.
SEC. 901. 4.7. FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
Section 901. 4. 7 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 901. 4.7 Fire department connections. Fire hose threads used in connection with
fire- extinguishing systems shall be National Standard Thread or as approved by the FAHJ. The
location of fire department hose connections and control valves shall be approved by the fire
code official.
SEC. 901. 8. 3. FIRE HYDRANTS AND FIRE APPLIANCES.
Section 901. 8. 3 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 901. 8. 3 Fire hydrants and fire appliances. Commercial fire sprinkler system
control valves shall not be shut off after activation of the sprinkler system, no matter what the
reason for the activation until the shut off is authorized by fire personnel. Fire detection systems
activated by fire, smoke, heat or any other cause shall not be reset until authorized by fire
personnel.
SEC. 903. 2 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS-WHERE REQUIRED.
Section 903.2 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 903.2 Where required. Approved automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be
installed in all new structures. For the purpose of fire sprinkler systems, buildings separated by
less than 10 feet from adjacent buildings shall be considered one building. Fire barriers and
partitions, regardless of rating, shall not be considered as creating separate buildings for
purposes of determining fire sprinkler requirements. Mezzanines shall be included in the total
square footage calculation.
16. 40 ( 22) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Exceptions:
1. Group U occupancies not greater than 500 square feet, when the building is 10 feet
or more from an adjacent structure or property line.
2. Accessory buildings not greater than 1, 000 square feet, and not otherwise
considered enclosed buildings/structures, which are of ignition- resistant construction
or as determined by the fire code official to not present a significant fire hazard.
3. Agricultural buildings constructed of wood or metal frames over which fabric or
similar material is stretched, which are specifically used as green houses are exempt
from the automatic sprinkler requirements unless physically connected to other
structures.
Sec. 903. 2. 1 Additions. An automatic fire sprinkler system may be required to be
installed throughout structures when the addition is more than 50% of the existing building or
when the altered building will exceed a fire flow as calculated pursuant to section 507.3. The
fire code official may require an automatic sprinkler system to be installed in buildings where no
water main exists to provide the required fire flow or where a special hazard exists, such as
poor access roads, steep grades and canyon rims, hazardous brush and response times
greater than 5 minutes by a fire department. The fire code official may require that other
protective measures be taken based on existing conditions and/ or potential hazards.
Sec. 903. 2. 2 Remodels or reconstructions. The fire code official may require an
automatic sprinkler to be installed throughout structures if a remodel or reconstruction includes
significant modification to the interior or roof of the building and the cost of the installation of an
automatic sprinkler system does not exceed 15 percent of the construction costs of the remodel
or reconstruction, or require vacancy of the building. The fire code official may require that
other protective measures be taken based on existing conditions and/ or potential hazards.
SEC. 903.4. SPRINKLER SYSTEM MONITORING AND ALARMS.
Section 903.4 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 903.4 Sprinkler system supervision and alarms. All valves controlling the water
supply for automatic sprinkler systems, pumps, tanks, water levels and temperatures, critical air
pressures and water-flow switches on all sprinkler systems shall be electronically supervised by
a listed fire alarm control unit.
Exceptions:
1. Automatic sprinkler systems with less than 100 fire sprinklers protecting one-family
and two-family dwellings.
2. Limited area sprinkler systems in accordance with Section 903.3. 8.
3. Automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with NFPA 13R where a
common supply main is used to supply both domestic water and the automatic
sprinkler system and a separate shutoff valve for the automatic sprinkler system is
not provided.
4. Jockey pump control valves that are sealed or locked in the open position.
16. 40 ( 23) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Control valves to commercial kitchen hoods, paint spray booths or dip tanks that are
sealed or locked in the open position.
6. Valves controlling the fuel supply to fire pump engines that are sealed or locked in
the open position.
7. Trim valves to pressure switches in dry, preaction and deluge sprinkler systems that
are sealed or locked in the open position.
SEC. 2808. STORAGE AND PROCESSING OF WOOD CHIPS, HOGGED MATERIAL,
FINES, COMPOST, SOLID BIOMASS FEEDSTOCK AND RAW PRODUCT ASSOCIATED
WITH YARD WASTE, AGRO-INDUSTRIAL AND RECYCLING FACILITIES.
Section 2808 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 2808
STORAGE AND PROCESSING OF WOOD CHIPS, HOGGED MATERIALS, FINES,
COMPOST, SOLID BIOMASS FEEDSTOCK AND RAW PRODUCT ASSOCIATED WITH
YARD WASTE, AGRO-INDUSTRIAL AND RECYCLING FACILITIES
Sec. 2808. 1 General. The storage and processing ( mulching, composting) of wood
chips, hogged materials, fines, compost, solid biomass feedstock and raw product produced
from yard waste, debris and agro- industrial and recycling facilities shall be in accordance with
section 2808.
Sec. 2808.2 Definitions. The following terms are defined in section 202:
AERATED STATIC PILE.
CHIPPING AND GRINDING.
COMPOSTING OPERATION.
GREENWASTE.
HOGGED MATERIALS.
MULCHING.
STATIC PILE.
WINDROW COMPOSTING PROCESS.
WOOD CHIPS.
Sec. 2808.3 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire code official prior
to engaging in the operation and storing processed of wood chips, hogged material, fines,
compost and raw product in association with yard waste and similar material recycling facilities.
The permit shall be renewed on an annual basis or shall be limited to such period of time as
designated by the fire code official. Permits shall not be transferable and any change in use,
location, occupancy, operation or ownership shall require a new permit.
Sec. 2808.4 Financial assurance for cost recovery. A security bond, irrevocable
letter of credit or other approved form of financial assurance shall be required to be posted, in
an amount determined by the fire code official. The financial assurance shall be a minimum of
25, 000.00 and a maximum of$ 100, 000.00, depending on the size of operation. The financial
assurance shall reimburse the fire department for expenses incurred in any emergency
response and/ or enforcement action by the fire department to protect the public from fire or
16. 40 ( 24) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
hazardous substances related to the operation. The financial assurance shall be returned to the
operator in a timely fashion once the operation is closed, to the satisfaction of the fire code
official.
Sec. 2808. 5 Operational and emergency plans. The following operational and
emergency action plans shall be submitted to and be approved by the fire code official prior to
initiating an operation under section 2808:
1. Operational Plan. The operational plan shall include: Site layout, pile dimensions,
fire access, water supply, site security, site operations, temperature monitoring,
rotation and diversion plan.
2. Emergency Plan. The emergency plan shall include: Operator fire response actions,
fire dispersal area, emergency equipment operator callback and initiation of
incoming diversion plan. All plans shall define the equipment necessary to process
and handle the materials.
Sec. 2808.6 Notification of fire department. The operator shall report all fires to the
fire department immediately upon discovery.
Sec. 2808. 7 Equipment operator emergency callback. The operator shall implement
and maintain a plan for rapid equipment operator response to the site. The maximum response
time to the site shall be within one hour of a fire department notification. The following
equipment shall be on site and staffed with skilled operators: bulldozer, loaders and heavy duty
equipment necessary to mitigate a fire. Notification procedure shall be maintained operational
24 hours a day, seven days a week. Notification may be by pager activation, telephone
answering service, or other approved means.
Sec. 2808.8 Incoming waste diversion plan. The operator shall develop a diversion
plan for incoming greenwaste for implementation in the event of equipment failure or other
inability to process and distribute greenwaste. The plan shall prevent stockpiling of waste on
the site and unauthorized depositing of waste on or near the site. The operator shall initiate the
diversion plan based on criteria in the Operational and Emergency Plan without further direction
from the fire department.
Sec. 2808.9 Unprocessable or non-greenwaste material. All greenwaste that cannot
be processed on- site, such as stumps and fibrous plants, shall be immediately removed from
the feedstock, stored in roll- off containers or bins and be removed from the facility on a weekly
basis. All plastic bags shall be removed prior to shredding material.
Sec. 2808. 10 Fire access roadway. A fire access roadway shall be provided to the site
and on the site. Each roadway shall be at least 20 feet wide, but the fire official may require a
greater width, depending on site conditions. The operator shall also be required to obtain the
fire code official' s approval for the type of driving surface for the onsite access roadway.
Sec. 2808. 11 Storage sites. Storage sites shall be level and on solid ground or other
approved all-weather surface.
Sec. 2808. 12 Combustible vegetation control. The operator shall clear any
combustible material, weeds, brush, trees or other vegetation ( including mulch) that is or may
become, dry and capable of transmitting fire, from within 50 feet of raw greenwaste and mulch
16. 40 ( 25) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
piles. Clearance shall be to bare earth or approved pavement. Individual growing trees within
that distance may remain, subject to the fire code official' s approval.
Sec. 2808. 13 Pile separation. Piles shall be separated from adjacent piles and
property lines by fire department access roadways.
Sec. 2808. 14 Size of piles. Pile height, width and length shall be limited to criteria
approved by the fire code official, based in part on the site material handling equipment. In no
case shall a pile exceed 12 feet in height, 100 feet in width and 200 feet in length.
Sec. 2808. 15 Static pile protection. Interior pile temperatures shall be monitored and
recorded on a regular basis per the Operational Plan. Internal pile temperatures shall be taken
at % the pile height, 12 to 24 inches from the surface with a probe- type thermometer. Readings
shall be made at not greater than 50- foot intervals along the length of the pile. Temperatures
above 158 F are known to adversely affect microbial decomposition and are considered
excessive. Infrared thermometers may be used to monitor for hot spots at the surface, but are
not a substitute for internal probe measurement and documentation. Once windrows exceed
170 F, the windrows shall be reduced in size, be rotated and be monitored daily until
temperatures drop below 158 F. All greenwaste stockpiles shall be re-mixed as necessary to
alleviate any fire due to spontaneous combustion or temperatures above 170 F. Windrows
shall be visually inspected on a regular basis. Once fires have been detected in any windrows
at a site, this visual inspection shall be a minimum daily requirement. Daily inspections shall
continue until the threat of fire no longer exists and the fire code official agrees inspections may
be discontinued. All temperature and pile- handling records shall be kept on file at the site and
be made available for inspection by fire department personnel. Data shall include date, time,
temperature, specific location and person conducting measurement.
Sec. 2808. 16 Firefighting water supplies and storage. Firefighting water supplies
shall conform to sections 2808. 16. 1 or 2808. 16. 2.
Sec. 2808. 16. 1 Public water supply. The operator shall provide and maintain
approved fire hydrants and waterline mains as required by the fire code official. Water lines
may be approved aboveground lines supplied from a reliable water supply with adequate
protection against impact and fire flow reaction. Hydrant spacing shall be at 400- foot intervals
along primary fire access roadways. Fire flow at each hydrant shall be least 1000 gallons per
minute at 20 psi. Duration of the required fire flow shall be as determined by the fire code
official.
Sec. 2808. 16. 2 Private water supply. Above-ground water storage tanks may be
installed when authorized by the fire code official where public water supply is not adequate to
meet fire flow requirements. Volume and duration of the required fire flow shall be as
determined by the fire code official.
Sec. 2808. 17 Material- handling equipment. Equipment used on all piles should be of
a type that minimizes compaction. All vehicles operating on or around the piles shall have a
Class A fire extinguisher of a minimum 2- A rating, in addition to the Class B rating appropriate
for the vehicles. Approved material- handling equipment shall be available during fire fighting
operations for moving wood chips, hogged material, compost and raw product produced from
yard waste and wood fines.
16. 40 ( 26) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 2808. 18 General safety rules for site equipment maintenance. Welding or
cutting torch operations shall be conducted a minimum of 30 feet from combustible materials. A
fire watch shall be provided to detect fire, and to operate fire-extinguishing equipment
throughout the welding or cutting operation and 30 minutes thereafter. Refueling and on- site
maintenance shall meet California Fire Code requirements in Chapters 23 & 57 and all other
applicable fire code requirements.
Sec. 2808. 19 Site security. Pile storage areas shall be surrounded with approved
fencing. Fences shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height.
Sec. 2808.20 Smoking and open burning prohibited. The operator shall prohibit
smoking and open flame on the operational site, including smoking within vehicles. Approved
signs shall be clearly and prominently posted, and shall be enforced by the site operators. No
open burning shall be allowed on site.
SEC. 3206.2. GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY FEATURES.
Section 3206.2 Exception J of Table 3206.2 of the California Fire Code is deleted.
SEC. 3318. FUEL MODIFICATION ZONE REQUIREMENTS
Section 3318 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
SECTION 3318
FUEL MODIFICATION ZONE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 3318. 1 Fuel modification zone during construction. Any person doing
construction of any kind which requires a permit under this code or the County Building Code
shall install a fuel modification zone prior to allowing any combustible material to arrive on the
site and shall maintain the zone during the duration of the project.
SEC. 4902. DEFINITIONS.
Section 4902 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 4902
DEFINITIONS
Sec. 4902. 1 General. For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms are defined as
follows:
BUILDING OFFICIAL means the Director of the Planning and Development Services or
any person appointed or hired by the Director to administer or enforce the County's planning
and construction standards. The building official duties shall include plan checking, inspections
and code enforcement.
CDF DIRECTOR means the Director of the California Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection.
COMBUSTIBLE VEGETATION means material that in its natural state will readily ignite,
burn and transmit fire from native or landscape plants to any structure or other vegetation.
16. 40 ( 27) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Combustible vegetation includes dry grass, brush, weeds, litter or other flammable vegetation
that creates a fire hazard.
DEFENSIBLE SPACE is an area either natural or man- made, where material capable of
allowing a fire to spread unchecked has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate and
intensity of an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire suppression operations to occur.
Distance measurements for defensible space shall be measured on a horizontal plane.
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONES are geographical areas designated pursuant to
California Public Resources Code sections 4201 through 4204 and classified as Very High, High
and Moderate in State Responsibility Areas or as Local Agency Very High Fire Hazard Severity
Zones designated pursuant to California Government Code sections 51175 through 51189.
The California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 1280 entitles maps of these geographical
areas as " Maps of the Fire Hazard Severity Zones in the State Responsibility Area of
California."
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN ( FPP) is a document prepared for a specific project or
development proposed in the wildland- urban interface fire area that describes ways to minimize
and mitigate potential loss from wildfire exposure, with the purpose of reducing impact on the
community' s fire protection delivery system.
FUEL BREAK is an area, strategically located for fighting anticipated fires, where the
native vegetation has been permanently modified or replaced so that fires burning into it can be
more easily controlled. Fuel breaks divide fire-prone areas into smaller areas for easier fire
control and to provide access for fire fighting.
LOCAL AGENCY VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE means an area
designated by a local agency upon the recommendation of the CDF Director pursuant to
Government Code sections 51177(c), 51178 and 51189 that is not a State Responsibility Area
and where a local agency, city, county, city and county, or district is responsible for fire
protection.
OPEN SPACE EASEMENT means any right or interest in perpetuity or for a term for
years in open- space land, as that term is defined in Government Code section 51051, acquired
by the County, a city or a nonprofit organization where the instrument granting the right or
interest imposes restriction on use of the land, to preserve the land for public use or enjoyment
of the natural or scenic character of the land.
OPEN SPACE PRESERVE means open- space land, as that term is defined in
Government Code section 65560( b), for the preservation of natural resources, managed
production of resources, outdoor recreation, public health and safety, buffer for a military
installation or the protection of cultural resources.
SLOPE is the variation of terrain from the horizontal; the number of feet, rise or fall per
100 feet, measured horizontally, expressed as a percentage.
STATE RESPONSIBILITY AREA means lands that are classified by the Board of
Forestry pursuant to Public Resources Code section 4125 where the financial responsibility of
preventing and suppressing forest fires is primarily the responsibility of the State.
16. 40 ( 28) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
TREE CROWN means the primary and secondary branches growing out from the main
stem, together with twigs and foliage.
WILDFIRE is any uncontrolled fire spreading through vegetative fuels that threaten to
destroy life, property, or resources as defined in Public Resources Code sections 4103 and
4104.
WILDFIRE EXPOSURE is one or a combination of radiant heat, convective heat, direct
flame contact and burning embers being projected by vegetation fire to a structure and its
immediate environment.
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE FIRE AREA is a geographical area identified by the
state as a " Fire Hazard Severity Zone" in accordance with the Public Resources Code sections
4201 through 4204 and Government Code sections 51175 through 51189, or other areas
designated by the enforcing agency to be at a significant risk from wildfires.
SEC. 4903. FIRE PROTECTION PLAN.
Section 4903 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 4903
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN
Sec. 4903. 1 When required. Planning and Development Services or the FAHJ may
require an applicant for a parcel map, subdivision map, specific plan or major use permit for any
property located in a wildland- urban interface fire area to submit a Fire Protection Plan ( FPP) as
part of the approval process.
Sec. 4903.2 Content. The FPP shall consider location, topography, geology, aspect,
combustible vegetation ( fuel types), climatic conditions and fire history. The plan shall address
the following in terms of compliance with applicable codes and regulations including but not
limited to: water supply, vehicular and emergency apparatus access, travel time to nearest
serving fire station, structural ignitability, structure set back, ignition- resistive building features,
fire protection systems and equipment, impacts to existing emergency services, defensible
space and vegetation management.
The FPP shall be prepared as prescribed in the County of San Diego Land Use and
Environment Group " Guidelines for Determining Significance and Report Format and Content
Requirements for Wildland Fire and Fire Protection" document.
SEC. 4905. WILDFIRE PROTECTION BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
Section 4905 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 4905
WILDFIRE PROTECTION BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 4905. 1 Construction methods for exterior wildfire exposure. The construction
methods for exterior wildfire exposure in a wildland- urban interface fire area shall be as
provided in Chapter 7A of the County Building Code.
16. 40 ( 29) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
SEC. 4907. DEFENSIBLE SPACE.
Section 4907 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
SECTION 4907
DEFENSIBLE SPACE
Sec. 4907. 1 Structure setbacks from property lines. The building official shall
establish the minimum setbacks for locating a structure on a lot in a wildland- urban interface fire
area. The setbacks may be greater than the minimum setbacks provided in the County Zoning
Ordinance, when necessary to protect a structure from an unreasonable hazard from a wildfire.
Sec. 4907. 1. 1 General fire setbacks. Buildings and structures shall be setback a
minimum of 30 feet from property lines and biological open space easements unless the County
Zoning Ordinance requires a greater minimum. When the property line abuts a roadway the
setback shall be measured from the centerline of the roadway.
Exception: When both the building official and the FAHJ determine that the hazard
from a wildland fire is not significant or when the terrain, parcel size or other constraints
on the parcel make the required setback infeasible, the building official may allow the
setback to be less than 30 feet when allowed by the Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 4907. 1. 2 Fire setbacks adjacent protected areas. Buildings and structures shall
be setback a minimum of 100 feet from any property line adjacent a national forest, state park or
open space preserve. This setback may be reduced when additional mitigation measures are
employed that are satisfactory to both the FAHJ and the building official.
Sec. 4907.2 Fuel modification. A fuel modification zone shall be required around every
building that is designed primarily for human habitation or use or a building designed specifically
to house farm animals. Decks, sheds, gazebos, freestanding open- sided shade covers and
similar accessory structures less than 250 square feet and 30 feet or more from a dwelling, and
fences more than 5 feet from a dwelling, are not considered structures for the establishment of a
fuel modification zone. A fuel modification zone shall comply with the following:
a) When a building or structure in a hazardous fire area is located 100 feet or more from
the property line, the person owning or occupying the building or structure shall maintain a
fuel modification zone within 100 feet of the building or structure. The area within 50 feet of
a building or structure shall be cleared of vegetation that is not fire resistant and re- planted
with fire- resistant plants. In the area between 50 to 100 feet from a building, all dead and
dying vegetation shall be removed. Native vegetation may remain in this area provided that
the vegetation is modified so that combustible vegetation does not occupy more than 50% of
the square footage of this area. Weeds and annual grasses shall be maintained at a height
not to exceed 6 inches. The chips from chipping of vegetation that is done on- site may
remain if the chips are dispersed so they do not exceed 6 inches in depth. Trees may
remain in both areas provided that the horizontal distance between crowns of adjacent trees
and crowns of trees and structures is not less than 10 feet. See Figure 4907.2.
b) When a building or structure in a hazardous fire area is setback less than 100 feet from
the property line, the person owning or occupying the building or structure shall meet the
requirements in subsection ( a) above, to the extent possible, in the area between the
building or structure and the property line.
16. 40 ( 30) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
c) The building official and the FAHJ may provide lists of prohibited and recommended
plants.
d) The fuel modification zone shall be located entirely on the subject property unless
approved by the FAHJ. This required fuel modification zone may be reduced as allowed in
subsection ( b) above or increased as required by a fire protection plan.
e) When the subject property contains an area designated to protect biological or other
sensitive habitat or resource, no building or other structure requiring a fuel modification zone
shall be located so as to extend the fuel modification zone into a protected area.
FIGURE 4907.2 MEASUREMENTS OF FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE
Unmodifie
d
100 feet10
100 feet 10 Modified
Modified Fuel
Fuel
Horizontal
Horizontal
Unmodified
Fuel
Sec. 4907.2. 1 Fuel modification of combustible vegetation from sides of roadways.
The FAHJ may require a property owner to modify combustible vegetation in the area within 20
feet from each side of the driveway or a public or private road adjacent to the property to
establish a fuel modification zone. The FAHJ has the right to enter private property to insure the
fuel modification zone requirements are met.
Exception: The FAHJ may reduce the width of the fuel modification zone if it will not
impair access.
Sec. 4907. 2. 2 Community fuel modification. The FAHJ may require a developer, as
a condition of issuing a certificate of occupancy, to establish one or more fuel modification
zones to protect a new community by reducing the fuel loads adjacent to a community and
structures within it. The developer shall assign the land on which any fuel modification zone is
established under this section to the association or other common owner group that succeeds
the developer as the person responsible for common areas within the community.
16. 40 ( 31) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 4907.2. 2. 1 Land ownership. Once a fuel modification zone has been established
under section 4907. 2. 2 the land on which the zone is located shall be under the control of an
association or other common ownership established in perpetuity, for the benefit of the
community to be protected.
Sec. 4907.3 Maintenance of defensible space. Any person owning, leasing,
controlling, operating or maintaining a building or structure required to establish a fuel
modification zone pursuant to section 4907. 2 shall maintain the defensible space. The FAHJ
may enter the property to determine if the person responsible is complying with this section.
The FAHJ may issue an order to the person responsible for maintaining the defensible space
directing the person to modify or remove non- fire resistant vegetation from defensible space
areas, remove leaves, needles and other dead vegetative material from the roof of a building or
structure, maintain trees as required by section 4907.3. 1 or to take other action the FAHJ
determines is necessary to comply with the intent of sections 4903 et seq.
Sec. 4907.3. 1 Trees. Crowns of mature trees located within defensible space shall
maintain a minimum horizontal clearance of 10 feet for fire resistant trees and 30 feet for nonfire
resistive trees. Mature trees shall be pruned to remove limbs to maintain a vertical
separation of three times the height of the lower vegetation or 6 feet, whichever is less, above
the ground surface adjacent to the trees. Dead wood and litter shall be regularly removed from
trees. Ornamental trees shall be limited to groupings of 2- 3 trees with canopies for each
grouping separated horizontally as described in Table 4907.3. 1.
TABLE 4907.3. 1
DISTANCE BETWEEN TREE CANOPIES
Distance between Tree Canopies by Percent Slope
Percent of Slope
Required Distances Between Edge of
Mature Tree Canopies
0 to 20 10 feet
21 to 40 20 feet
41 plus 30 feet
Determined from canopy dimensions as described in Sunset Western Garden Book( Current
Edition)
Sec. 4907.3. 2 Orchards, groves or vineyards. All orchards, groves and vineyards
shall be kept in a healthy state and free of combustible debris and vegetation, including dead or
downed trees. A 10- foot firebreak shall be cleared around the perimeter of any orchard, grove
or vineyard. Dead grasses between rows of trees or vines shall be mowed.
SEC. 5601. 2. EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS- APPLICABILITY.
Section 5601. 2 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 5601. 2 Applicability. This section shall apply to the manufacture, possession,
storage, sale, transportation and use of explosives and blasting agents and to any blasting
operation in the unincorporated area of the County. The Sheriff is the Issuing Officer for
purposes of this section. The Sheriff may delegate the duties of Issuing Officer at her or his
discretion. Additionally, as may be appropriate based on circumstances, the Issuing Officer may
enter into memoranda of agreement with non- County fire agencies whereby such non- County
agency will assume the duties of issuing a permit or permits required by this Chapter. The
16. 40 ( 32) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Issuing Officer shall determine whether a blast is a major blast or a minor blast under this
section. A minor blast is subject to all conditions of this section except the inspection
requirements.
Sec. 5601. 2. 1 Definitions. The following terms are defined in section 202:
BLASTER.
BLASTING AGENT.
BLASTING OPERATION.
BLASTING PERMIT.
BLAST SITE.
EXPLOSIVES PERMIT.
INSPECTOR.
MAJOR BLASTING.
MINOR BLASTING.
Sec. 5601. 2. 2. Application. Application for a permit required by this section shall be in
the form required by the Issuing Officer.
Sec. 5601. 2. 3 Permit requirements. No person shall conduct blasting in the
unincorporated area of the County without an explosives permit issued under this chapter. A
person applying for an explosives permit shall, in addition to demonstrating compliance with fire
safety requirements, shall also comply with all County requirements for any building permits,
grading permits, use permits, encroachment permits and all other entitlements to use property,
including zoning requirements and any determination under the Zoning Ordinance of
nonconforming status. The applicant shall be responsible for providing proof of all necessary
approvals when requested by the Issuing Officer.
Sec. 5601. 2. 3. 1 Blasting permit required. In addition to obtaining an explosives
permit, no person shall conduct blasting without first obtaining a blasting permit. The applicant
shall be responsible for providing proof of all necessary approvals when requested by the
Issuing Officer.
Sec. 5601. 2.4 Permit conditions. The Issuing Officer may impose conditions and
procedures as are deemed reasonably necessary to protect the public health and safety based
upon the facts and circumstances of a particular blasting operation. The permit conditions shall
be in writing. Failure to comply with any permit condition is grounds for revocation of the permit.
A blaster may request the Issuing Officer release the blaster from any permit condition if
circumstances have changed that make the condition no longer applicable. In addition to
complying with the County blasting regulations, a blaster shall also comply with blasting
regulations of neighboring jurisdictions, for any blasting operations outside of the unincorporated
area of the County conducted in conjunction with a project within the unincorporated areas of
the County.
Sec. 5601. 2. 5 Insurance and indemnification required. As an additional condition for
obtain an explosives permit the applicant shall submit: ( 1) a certificate of insurance evidencing
that the blaster has obtained a general liability insurance policy which includes coverage for
explosion, collapse and underground property damage from an insurer satisfactory to the
Issuing Officer, that is in effect for the period covered by the permit, written on an 'occurrence"
basis, in an amount of not less than $ 500, 000 per each occurrence, naming the County and the
16. 40 ( 33) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
FAHJ as an additional insured and providing that the policy will not be canceled or terminated
without 30 days prior written notice to the County and ( 2) an agreement signed by the blaster
agreeing to defend, indemnify and hold the County and its agents, officers and employees
harmless from any claims or actions arising from the issuance of the permit or any blasting
activity conducted under the permit.
Sec. 5601. 2. 6 Blasting hours. Blasting shall only be allowed Monday through
Saturday, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p. m. or 1/ 2 hour before sunset, whichever
occurs first, unless special circumstances warrant another time or day and the Issuing Officer
grants approval of the change in time or day.
Sec. 5601. 2. 7 Additional operational requirements. The owner of any property in the
unincorporated area of the County on which any blasting is intended to occur, shall give, or
cause to be given, a one- time notice in writing, for any proposed blasting to the local fire agency
and dispatch center and to all residences, including mobilehomes, and businesses within 600
feet of any potential major blast location or 300 feet from any potential minor blast location. The
notice shall be given not less than 24 hours, but not more than one week, before a blasting
operation and shall be in a form approved by the Issuing Officer. The minimum 24- hour notice
requirement may be reduced to a lesser period but not less than one hour if the Issuing Officer
determines that special circumstances warrant the reduction in time. Adequate precautions
shall be taken to reasonably safeguard persons and property before, during and after blasting
operations. These precautions shall include:
1. The blaster shall retain an inspector to inspect all structures, including mobilehomes,
within 300 feet of the blast site before blasting operations, unless inspection is
waived by the owner and/ or occupant. The inspector shall obtain permission of the
owner and/ or occupant before conducting the inspection. The inspection shall be
only for the purpose of determining the existence of any visible or reasonably
recognizable preexisting defects or damages in any structure. Waiver of inspection
shall be in writing signed by the owner and/ or occupant. Refusal to allow inspection
shall also constitute a waiver. The inspector shall notify the owner and/ or occupant
of the consequences of refusing an inspection shall include a refusal in the summary
report filed with the Issuing Officer. The blaster shall request an inspector conduct
post- blast inspections upon receipt of a written complaint of property damage if the
complaint is made within 60 days of completion of blasting operations. If the blaster
has knowledge of alleged property damage independent of the written complaint,
the blaster shall also retain an inspector to conduct a post- blast inspection.
2. An inspector shall complete and sign pre- blast inspection reports identifying all
findings and inspection waivers. The blaster shall retain the inspection reports for
three years from the date of the blasting and upon a complaint of alleged damage
the blaster shall immediately file a copy of the report with the Issuing Officer and
provide a copy to the complainant. If there is a change in the blasting contractor
after blasting has commenced on a project, a re- inspection shall be conducted in
accordance with the preceding paragraph before the new blasting contractor
undertakes any additional blasting.
3. The blaster shall retain an inspector to conduct a post-blast inspection of any
structure for which a written complaint alleging blast damage has been received. A
written report of the inspection shall be immediately filed with the Issuing Officer and
provided to any person who made a complaint for damages.
16. 40 ( 34) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
4. The blaster shall allow any representative of the Issuing Officer to inspect the blast
site and blast materials or explosives at any reasonable time.
5. If the blaster wants a representative of the Issuing Officer to witness a blasting
operation the blaster shall make a request with the Issuing Officer at least 12 hours
before the blast. The blaster shall confirm the request for a witness with the Issuing
Officer at least one hour before the blast. The blaster shall be responsible for any
cost incurred by the Issuing Officer in having a representative witness the blast.
6. The blaster shall notify the Issuing Officer on the day of a scheduled blasting
operation not less than one hour before blasting.
7. All major blasting operations shall be monitored by an approved seismograph
located at the nearest structure within 600 feet of the blasting operation. All daily
seismograph reports shall be maintained by the blaster for three years from the
blasting.
Sec. 5601. 2. 8 Seizure of illegal items. The Issuing Officer may seize at the owner's
expense, all explosives, ammunition or blasting agents, which are illegally manufactured, sold,
offered or exposed for sale, delivered, stored, possessed or transported in violation of this
chapter.
Sec. 5601. 2. 9 Violations for false or misleading information. It shall be unlawful and
a violation of this chapter for any person to provide false or misleading information or
documentation to the County or any of its officers or employees or to any fire department, fire
protection district, fire company or legally formed volunteer fire department, or its officers or
employees in the unincorporated area of the County, having jurisdiction over any aspect of the
explosives or blasting permit process or blasting operations.
Sec. 5601. 2. 10 Fees. A person applying to the Issuing Officer to be approved as a
blaster or inspector, as defined in this section, shall pay an application fee to the Issuing Officer.
A person applying for an explosives permit under this section shall pay the fee established by
the Issuing Officer with the application. The amount of any fee required by this chapter shall be
determined by the Issuing Officer on the basis of the full costs involved in processing an
application.
SEC. 5608. 1. FIREWORKS DISPLAY.
Section 5608. 1 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 5608. 1 General. Outdoor fireworks displays, use of pyrotechnics before a
proximate audience and pyrotechnic special effects in motion picture, television, theatrical and
group entertainment productions shall comply with California Code of Regulations, Title 19,
Chapter 6 and County Code sections 32. 101 et seq. The Fire Warden is the Issuing Officer for
any fireworks permit required by this Chapter. The Fire Warden may delegate the duties of
Issuing Officer at her or his discretion. Additionally, as may be appropriate based on
circumstances, the Issuing Officer may enter into memoranda of agreement with non- County
fire agencies whereby such non- County agency will assume the duties of issuing a permit or
permits required by this Chapter.
16. 40 ( 35) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Sec. 5608. 1. 1 Scope. The possession, manufacture, sale, storage, use and display of
fireworks are prohibited in the unincorporated area of the County except as provided in County
Code sections 32. 101 et seq.
SEC. 5705. 2.4. TRANSFERRING CLASS I, II OR III LIQUIDS.
Section 5705.2. 4 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
Sec. 5705.2.4 Transferring Class I, II or III liquids. Class I or II liquids or Class III
liquids that are heated up to or above their flash points shall be transferred by one of the
following methods:
1. From safety cans complying with UL 30.
2. Through an approved closed piping system.
3. From containers or tanks by an approved pump taking suction through an
opening in the top of the container or tank.
4. Approved engineered liquid transfer system.
Exception: Liquids in containers not exceeding a 5. 3- gallon ( 20 L) capacity.
SEC. 5706.2. 5.2.. TANKS FOR GRAVITY DISCHARGE.
Section 5706.2. 5. 2. 1 of the California Fire Code is added to read:
Sec. 5706.2. 5. 2. 1 Limitations on tanks for gravity discharge. Gravity dispensing of
Class I or II liquids or Class III liquids that are heated up to or above their flash points is
prohibited. Dispensing devices for flammable and combustible liquids shall be of an approved
type. Approved pumps taking suction from the top of the tank shall be used. Flammable or
combustible liquids shall not be dispensed by a device that operates through pressure within a
storage tank. Air or oxygen shall not be used to pressurize an aboveground tank.
SEC. 5706.2. 8.2 PROHIBITION ON USE OF TANK VEHICLE.
Section 5706.2. 8. 2 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 5706.2. 8. 2. Tank vehicle as a substitute for permanent tank prohibited. The
use of a tank vehicle in a stationary manner as a substitute for an approved above-ground or
below-ground fuel tank is prohibited.
SEC. 6107. 5. SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AND DEVICES-SECURING LPG TANKS.
Section 6107.5 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 6107. 5 Securing LPG tanks. When required by the FAHJ, LPG tanks shall be
secured to prevent the tank from rolling or moving.
SEC. 8001. REFERENCED STANDARDS.
16. 40 ( 36) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 8001 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
Sec. 8001. Referenced standard NFPA 13D. Amended sections as follows:
Add a new 7. 1. 5 to read as follows:
7. 1. 5 Pressure-regulating valve. When available system water pressure exceeds 150
psi, a pressure- regulating valve acceptable to the FAHJ shall be installed before the system
riser. Such valves shall be adjusted to restrict the outlet pressure to a maximum of 150 psi at
any flow or no flow. When such valves are installed submittal documents must include
manufacturer information sheets along with charts showing the dimensions ( size) and flow
characteristics inlet and outlet pressures at various flows for the type of valve being installed,
and the valve shall be included in the design calculations.
Exception: At the discretion of the FAHJ the contractor may install an acceptable
pressure relief valve, piped to the system main drain, set to relieve the pressure at 175 psi,
provided the available supply pressure does not exceed 175 psi.
Add a new 7.3. 3 to read as follows:
7. 3.3 Pressure gauge. An approved 300 psi pressure gauge shall be permanently
installed at the riser.
Revise 7.6 to read as follows:
7. 6 Alarms. A water flow switch shall be provided and located on the sprinkler riser
above the check valve and main drain and shall actuate an audible fire alarm signal bell. The
water flow switch shall be a retarding type with a delay between 15- 60 seconds before
activation of the signal bell. Alarm bell shall have a minimum diameter of 8 inches and be
mounted on the exterior in the vicinity of the master bedroom. The alarm bell shall be clearly
audible in all bedrooms with intervening doors closed.
Revise 8. 3.4 to read as follows:
8. 3.4. Sprinklers may be omitted from carports and open attached porches. However,
attached garages shall be protected with intermediate temperature rated sprinklers. Sprinkler
heads in garages shall be protected against mechanical damage by approved guards, unless
recessed heads are provided. Garage doors may be disregarded in the layout of the fire
sprinkler system.
Revise 8. 3.5. 1. 1 to read as follows:
8. 3. 5. 1. 1. Where the fuel- fired equipment is above all of the occupied areas of the
dwelling unit, at least one quick-response intermediate temperature sprinkler shall be installed
above the equipment.
Add a new 10.2.4. 1 to read as follows:
10. 2. 4. 1 3- Head Calculation. When design conditions exceed the allowances of sec.
10. 2, a 3- head calculation may be required by the FAHJ.
16. 40 ( 37) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Add a new 10.2.5 to read as follows:
10. 2. 5 Pressure Cushion. The system shall be designed 10% below available water
source pressure during peak usage.
Revise 11. 2. 1. 1 to read as follows:
11. 2. 1. 1 Hydrostatic Tests. Where a fire department connection is not provided, the
system shall be hydrostatically tested at 200 psi.
Add a new 12.3.3 to read as follows:
12. 3. 3 Systems out of service. When sprinkler systems are shut- off or otherwise
inoperative for periods greater than 48 hours for repair of service, the FAHJ must be notified
immediately.
SEC. APP. B103.3. AREAS WITHOUT WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
Appendix B, section B103. 3 of the California Fire Code is revised to read:
B103.3 Areas without water supply systems. For information regarding water
supplies for fire- fighting purposes in rural areas and suburban areas in which adequate and
reliable water supplies do not exist, the fire code official is authorized to utilize NFPA 1142 or
the standard published by the Insurance Services Office document entitled " Guide for
Determination of Required Fire Flow."
SEC. APP. H100 REPORTING FORMS
Appendix H, sec. H100 is added to the California Fire Code to read:
SECTION H100
REPORTING FORMS
H100. 1 Reporting forms. Hazardous Materials reporting forms currently adopted by
San Diego County Department of Environmental Health Hazardous Materials Management Unit
which cover the same areas as forms contained in this Appendix are adopted by reference and
take precedence over this Appendix.
Prior Code 11- 1; Ord. No. 91- 31, Amended, 10/ 22/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 17, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99-
3, Amended, 06/ 08/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 21, Amended, 09/ 24/02; Ord. No. 2007-22, Repealed and
Replaced, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 18, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 21, Repealed
and Replaced, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 11/ 16)
Section 16.40.030 Geographic Limits
The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2016 California Fire Code are
established as follows:
a) Sec. 5704.2. 9. 6. 1. The geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II
liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited is hereby established as the
jurisdictional limits of the City of Vista.
16. 40 ( 38) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Exceptions:
1. In areas zoned for mixed, general or high impact industrial uses.
2. Crankcase draining may be stored in specially constructed above-ground storage
tanks, approved by the fire code official, with a maximum capacity of 550 gallons.
These tanks may be located within a building when the fire code official deems
appropriate and the container meets U. L. Standard 2085. Containers shall be
installed and used in accordance with their listing and provisions shall be made for
leak and spill containment. In no case shall storage be allowed on residential or
institutional property.
3. With the fire code official' s approval, Class I and II liquids may be stored above
ground outside of buildings in specially designed, approved and listed containers
which have features incorporated into their design which mitigate concerns for
exposure to heat, ignition sources and mechanical damage. Containers shall be
installed and used in accordance with their listing, and provisions shall be made for
leak and spill containment. The fire code official may disapprove the installation of
these containers when in his or her opinion their use presents a risk to life or
property.
b) Sec. 5706.2.4.4. The geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II
liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited is hereby established as the jurisdictional limits of the
City of Vista.
Exceptions:
1. In areas zoned for other than residential uses, when approved by the FAHJ.
2. Crankcase draining may be stored in specially constructed above-ground storage
tanks, approved by the fire code official, with a maximum capacity of 550 gallons.
These tanks may be located within a building when the fire code official deems
appropriate and the container meets U. L. Standard 2085. Containers shall be
installed and used in accordance with their listing, and provisions shall be made for
leak and spill containment. In no case shall storage be allowed in residential or
institutional property.
3. With the fire code official' s approval, Class I and II liquids may be stored above
ground in specially designed, approved and listed containers which meet U. L.
Standard 2085. Containers shall be installed and used in accordance with their
listing, and provisions shall be made for leak and spill containment. The fire code
official may disapprove the installation of such containers when in his opinion their
use presents a risk to life or property.
c) Sec. 5806.2. The geographic limits in which the storage of flammable cryogenic
fluids in stationary containers is prohibited is hereby established as the jurisdictional limits of the
City of Vista, except for areas zoned for mixed, general or high impact industrial uses.
d) Sec. 6104.2. The geographic limits in which the bulk storage of liquefied petroleum
gas is prohibited for the protection of heavily populated and congested areas is hereby
established as the jurisdictional limits of the City of Vista, except for areas zoned for mixed,
general or high impact industrial uses.
16. 40 ( 39) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Exception: Bulk tanks with a maximum aggregate capacity of 30, 000 gallons water
capacity for above-ground storage of underground distribution to residential areas,
where the storage and distribution meets Fire Code requirements as determined by the
FAHJ.
Prior Code 11- 1; Ord. No. 91- 31, Amended, 10/ 22/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 17, Amended, 11/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 99-
3, Amended, 06/ 08/ 99; Ord. No. 2002- 21, Amended, 09/ 24/02; Ord. No. 2007-22, Repealed and
Replaced, 11/ 13/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 18, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 12/ 10; Ord. No. 2013- 21, Repealed
and Replaced, 11/ 12/ 13; Ord. No. 2016- 14, Repealed and Replaced, 10/ 11/ 16)
16. 40 (40) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.44
County Regulations for Condemnation of Buildings
Sections:
16. 44.010 Adoption
Section 16. 44.010 Adoption
There is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of regulating condemnation of
buildings, that certain code known as the San Diego County Code of Regulatory Ordinances,
Chapter 1 of Division 9 of Title 6 relating to condemnation of buildings. One copy of the County
Code is on file in the Office of the City Clerk and is adopted and incorporated as though fully set
out at length in this section, and from the date on which the ordinance codified in this section
takes effect the provisions thereof are controlling within the limits of the city.
Prior code 14- 3; Ord. No. 90- 16 Section 9)
16. 44 (l) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.48
Flood Area Construction Regulations
Sections:
16. 48. 010 Statutory Authorization
16. 48. 020 Findings of Fact
16. 48. 030 Statement of Purpose
16. 48. 040 Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
16. 48. 050 Definitions
16. 48. 060 Lands to Which this Ordinance Applies
16. 48. 070 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard
16. 48. 080 Compliance
16. 48. 090 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
16. 48. 100 Interpretation
16. 48. 110 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
16. 48. 120 Development Permit Required
16. 48. 130 Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
16. 48. 140 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
16. 48. 150 Standards for Construction
16. 48. 160 Standards for Utilities
16. 48. 170 Standards for Subdivisions
16. 48. 180 Standards for Manufactured Homes
16. 48. 185 Standards for Recreational Vehicles
16. 48. 190 Floodways
16. 48. 200 Appeals
16. 48. 210 Conditions for Variances
16. 48. 220 Severability
Section 16. 48.010 Statutory Authorization
The Legislature of the State of California has in Government Code Sections 65302,
65560 and 65800 conferred upon local government units the authority to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore,
the City Council of the City of Vista does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.020 Findings of Fact
A. The flood hazard areas of the City of Vista are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
Governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
B. These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed
or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of obstructions in areas of
special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities also contributes to flood losses.
Prior Code Appendix 8; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
16. 48 (l) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 48.030 Statement of Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare,
and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by legally
enforceable regulations applied uniformly throughout the community to all publicly and privately
owned land within flood prone, mudslide or flood related erosion areas. These regulations are
designed to:
A. Protect human life and health;
B. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
C. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and
generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
D. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
E. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains,
electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;
F. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development
of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood blight areas;
G. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of special
flood hazard; and
H. Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.040 Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes regulations to:
A. Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due
to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in erosion or flood heights or
velocities;
B. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses,
be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
C. Control the alteration of natural floodplain, stream channels and natural
protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
D. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase
flood damage;
E. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other areas; and
F. These regulations take precedence over any less restrictive conflicting local laws,
ordinances and codes.
Prior Code Appendix 8; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.050 Definitions
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this chapter shall he
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter
its most reasonable application.
Accessory structure" means a structure that is 1) solely for parking of no more than
two automobiles; or limited storage; and 2) is less than 150 square feet and $ 1500 or an
equivalent value at the time of construction equal to $ 1500 as of January 1, 2007 when adjusted
for inflation by using the Consumer Price Index for San Diego County.
Accessory use" means a use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
16. 48 (2) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Adversely affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood no more than one foot at any point.
Alluvial fan" means a geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan- shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel, and fine sediments that have been eroded from mountain slopes,
transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley floors, and which is subject to flash
flooding, high velocity flows, debris flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and
channel migration.
Apex" means the point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on undisturbed
fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the fan emerges from the
mountain front.
Appeal" means a request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator' s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
Area of shallow flooding" means a designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map ( FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly defined channel
does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be
evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
Area of special flood hazard" - See " Special flood hazard area."
Base flood" means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year ( also called the " 100- year flood"). Base flood is the term used
throughout this ordinance.
Base Flood Elevation ( BFE)" means the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map for Zones AE, AH, Al- 30 that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a
flood that has a one percent or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Basement" means any area of the building has its floor subgrade ( below ground level)
on all sides.
Building" - see " Structure"
Development" means any man- made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
Encroachment" means the advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain which may impede
or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home
park for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed ( including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) are completed before
the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision" means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed ( including the installation of utilities, either final site
grading or pouring of concrete pads, or the construction of streets).
Flood," " flooding" or " flood water" means:
1. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source; and/ or
2. The condition resulting from flood- related erosion.
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map ( FBFM)" means the official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration delineated the
areas of special flood hazards.
16. 48 (3) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Flood Hazard Boundary Map" means the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated the areas
of flood hazard.
Flood Insurance Rate Map ( FIRM)" means the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study" means the official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Flood Boundary
and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodplain" or " flood prone area" means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from, any source ( see definition of" flooding").
Floodplain Administrator" is the individual appointed to administer and enforce the
floodplain management regulations.
Floodplain management" means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing, where
possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management regulations, and open space
plans.
Floodplain management regulations" means this ordinance and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances ( such as grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of
police power which control development in flood- prone areas. The term describes federal, state
or local regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and
reducing flood loss and damage.
Floodproofing" means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. ( Refer to
FEMA Technical Bulletins TB 1- 93, TB 3- 93, and TB 7- 93 for guidelines on dry and wet flood
proofing.)
Flood way" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also referred to as " regulatory floodway."
Floodway fringe" is that area of the floodplain on either side of the " regulatory
floodway" where encroachment may he permitted.
Fraud and victimization" as related to Sections 16. 48. 200 and 16.48. 210, variances
of this ordinance, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of
the public. In examining this requirement, the City Council will consider the fact that every
newly constructed building adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of the
community for 50 to 100 years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed below the base
flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from floods, while
future owners of the property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring. In addition,
future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage,
and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
Functionally dependent use" means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only
docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, and ship- building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long- term storage
or related manufacturing facilities.
16. 48 (4) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Governing body" is the local governing unit, i. e., county or municipality, that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry.
Hardship" as related to Sections 16. 48. 200 and 16. 48. 210, of this ordinance means
the exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
City Council requires that the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's
neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems
can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more
expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use
than originally intended.
Highest adjacent grade" means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed wall of a structure.
Historic structure" means any structure that is:
1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
4. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
with historic preservation programs that have been certified either by an approved state
program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior directly by the Secretary of the Interior in
states without approved programs.
Levee" means a man- made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the flow
of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
Levee system" means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including basement,
see " Basement" definition).
1. An unfinished or flood- resistant enclosure below the lowest floor that is
usable solely for parking vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement
area, is not considered a building' s lowest floor provided it conforms to applicable non- elevation
design requirements, including, but not limited to:
a. the wet flood proofing standard in Section 16. 48. 150( C) ( 3);
b. the anchoring standards in Section 16. 48. 150(A) ( 1);
C. the construction materials and methods standards in Section
16. 18. 150( B); and
d. the standards for utilities in Section 16. 48. 160.
2. For residential structures, all sub- grade enclosed areas are prohibited as
they are considered to be basements ( see " Basement" definition). This prohibition includes
below-grade garages and storage areas.
Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities. The term " manufactured home" does not include a
recreational vehicle."
16. 48 (5) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel ( or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
Market Value" shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the structure in
new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of depreciation which has accrued
since the structure was constructed. The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on
a square foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide recognized
by the building construction industry. The amount of depreciation shall he determined by taking
into account the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence as
approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or other forms of
external obsolescence. Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from
those contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may he considered only if such
factors are included in a report prepared by an independent professional appraiser and
supported by a written explanation of the differences.
Mean sea level" means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum ( NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum ( NAVD) of
1988, or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a community' s flood insurance
rate map are referenced.
New construction" means, for floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the " start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management
regulation adopted by this community, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
New manufactured home park or subdivision" means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed ( including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by this
community.
Obstruction" includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee,
dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building,
wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse, which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/ or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare or collect debris carried
by the flow of water, or is likely to be carried downstream.
One- hundred-year flood" or " 100-year flood" - see " Base Flood."
Public safety and nuisance" as related to Section 16. 48. 200 and 16. 48. 210, of this
ordinance means that the granting of a variance must not result in anything which is injurious to
safety or health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake,
river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle which is:
1. Built on a single chassis;
2. 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
3. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light- duty
truck; and
4. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Regulatory floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
16. 48 (6) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Remedy a violation" means to bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations or, if this is not possible, to
reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include protecting
the structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing state or
federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
Riverine" means relating to, formed by or resembling a river ( including tributaries),
stream, brook, etc.
Sheet flow area" - see " Area of shallow flooding."
Special flood hazard area ( SFHA)" means an area in the floodplain subject to a one
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on an FHBM or FIRM as
Zone A, AO, Al - A30, AE, A99, AH.
Start of construction" includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not
include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation
of streets and/ or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not
part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether
or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure" means a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground. This
includes a gas or liquid storage tank or a manufactured home.
Substantial damage" means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before- damaged condition would equal or exceed 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement" means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the " start of construction" of the improvement. This
term includes structures which have incurred " substantial damage" regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or
2. Any alteration of a " historic structure" provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structure' s continued designation as a " historic structure."
Variance" means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
Violation" means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with this ordinance. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Water surface elevation" means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum ( NCND) of 1929 ( or other datum where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
16. 48 (7) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Watercourse" means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes
specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.060 Lands to Which this Ordinance Applies
The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the
City of Vista.
Prior Code Appendix 5; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.070 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration
FIA) of the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study,
dated June 17, 1986 and September 29, 2006; and accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps ( FBFMs) dated June 19, 1997; August 13,
1998; June 16, 1999; and September 29, 2006, and all subsequent amendments and/ or
revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. This flood
insurance study and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and
may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and
which are recommended to the City Council by the Floodplain Administrator. The study, FIRMs
and FBFMs are on file at 600 Eucalyptus Avenue, Vista, CA 92084.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.080 Compliance
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, convened or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
Violations of the requirements ( including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein shall prevent the
City Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Editor' s Note: The effective date of the ordinance codified in Section 16. 48.080 is 11/ 9/ 87.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97, Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.090 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 100 Interpretation
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
A. Considered as minimum requirements;
B. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
16. 48 (8) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 110 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods
can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man- made or natural
causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards, or
uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the City, any officer or employee thereof, the State of California
or the Federal Insurance Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 120 Development Permit Required
A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other development,
including manufactured homes, begins within any area of special flood hazards established in
Section 16. 48.070. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by
the Floodplain Administrator. The applicant shall provide the following information:
A. Plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
1. Location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question, existing or
proposed structures, storage of materials and equipment and their location;
2. Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and other utilities;
3. Grading information showing existing and proposed contours, any
proposed fill, and drainage facilities;
4. Location of regulatory floodway when applicable;
5. Base flood elevation information as specified in Section 16.48. 070 or
Section 16. 48. 140. C;
6. Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
including basement) of all structures; and
7. Proposed elevation in relation to the mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in Section 16.48. 150 of this chapter
and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin TB 3- 93.
B. Certification from a registered civil engineer or architect that the nonresidential
floodproofed building meets the floodproofing criteria in Section 16. 48. 150.
C. For a crawl- space foundation, location and total net area of foundation openings
as required in Section 16. 48. 150 of this chapter and detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletins 1- 93
and 7- 93.
D. Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as
a result of proposed development.
E. All appropriate certifications listed in Section 16. 48. 140 of this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 5/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended,
10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
16. 48 (9) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 48. 130 Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
The City Engineer or designee, is hereby appointed to administer, implement, and
enforce this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 140 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
A. Permit review. Review all development permits to determine that:
1. Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, including
determination of substantial improvement and substantial damage of existing structures;
2. All required state and federal permits have been obtained;
3. The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
4. The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a floodway has not
been designated. This means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the City of Vista; and
5. All Letters of Map Revision ( LOMR's) for flood control projects are
approved prior to the issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based
on Conditional Letters of Map Revisions ( CLOMR's). Approved CLOMR's allow construction of
the proposed flood control project and land preparation as specified in the " start of construction"
definition.
B. Development of Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Procedures.
1. Using FEMA publication FEMA 213 " Answers to Questions About
Substantially Damaged Buildings," develop detailed procedures for identifying and administering
requirements for substantial improvement and substantial damage, to include defining " Market
Value."
2. Assure procedures are coordinated with other departments/divisions and
implemented by community staff.
C. Review, Use and Development of Other Base Flood Data.
1. When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with Section 16. 48. 070, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or state agency or other
source, in order to administer Sections 16. 48. 150 through 16. 48. 190; or
2. If no base flood elevation data is available from a federal or state agency
or other source, then a base flood elevation shall be obtained using one of two methods from
the FEMA publication " Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate Lone A Areas - A
Guide for Obtaining and Developing Base ( 100- year) Flood Elevations" dated July 1995 in order
to administer Sections 16. 48. 150 through 16. 48. 190.
a. Simplified method.
i) 100- year or base flood discharge shall be obtained using
the appropriate regression equation found in a U. S. Geological Survey publication, or the
discharge- drainage area method; and
ii) Base flood elevation shall be obtained using the Quick- 2
computer program developed by FEMA; or
16. 48 ( 10) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
b. Detailed method.
i) 100- year or base flood discharge shall be obtained using
the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers' HEC- RAS computer program; and
ii) Base flood elevation shall he obtained using the U. S. Army
Corps of Engineers' HEC- HMS computer program.
D. Notification of Other Agencies.
1. Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
a. Notify adjacent communities and the California Department of
Water Resources prior to alteration or relocation;
b. Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
C. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
2. Base Flood Elevation changes due to physical alterations ( the following
submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of those physical changes affecting
flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements are based on
current data.):
a. Within 6 months of information becoming available or project
completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall submit or assure that the
permit applicant submits technical or scientific data to FEMA for a Letter of Map Revision
LOMR).
b. All LOMR's for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building Permits must not be issued based on Conditional Letters
of Map Revision ( CLOMR's). Approved CLOMR's allow construction of the proposed flood
control project and land preparation as specified in the " start of construction" definition.
3. Changes in corporate boundaries. Notify FEMA in writing whenever the
corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and include a copy of a
map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate limits.
E. Documentation of Floodplain Development. Obtain and maintain for public
inspection and make available as needed:
1. Certification required in Section 16. 48. 150( C)( 1) ( lowest floor elevations)
and Section 16. 48. 180 ( Manufactured Homes);
2. Certification required in Section 16. 48. 150( C)( 3)( c) ( elevation or flood
proofing of nonresidential structures);
3. Certification required in Section 16. 48. 150( C)( 4)( a) or 16. 48. 150( C) ( 4)( b)
wet flood proofing standard);
4. Certification of elevation required in Section 16. 48. 170( B) ( subdivision
and other proposed development standards);
5. Certification required in Section 16. 48. 190(A) ( floodway encroachments);
and
6. Maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for their
issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
F. Map Determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in Sections 16.48. 200 and 16. 48. 210.
G. Remedial Action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
Section 16. 48. 080 of this chapter.
H. Biennial Reporting. Complete and submit Biennial Report to FEMA.
16. 48 ( 11) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
I. Planning. Assure City of Vista' s General Plan is consistent with floodplain
management objectives herein.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 150 Standards for Construction
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required:
A. Anchoring:
1. All new construction and substantial improvements of structures,
including manufactured homes, shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including
the effects of buoyancy; and
2. All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of Section
16. 48. 180.
B. Construction materials and methods. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed:
1. With flood resistant materials as specified in FEMA Technical Bulletin TB
2- 93, and utility equipment resistant to flood damage for areas below the base flood elevation;
2. Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
3. With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/ or located so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding; and if
4. Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
C. Elevation and flood proofing ( See definitions for " basement," " lowest floor," " new
construction," " substantial damage," and " substantial improvement":
1. Residential construction, new or substantial improvement shall have the
lowest floor, including basement,
a. In AE, AH, Al- 30 Zones, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation.
b. In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at
least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified. ( The State of
California recommends that in AO zones without velocity the lowest floor be elevated above the
highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM by
at least two feet, or elevated at least four feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified.
C. In an A zone, elevated to or above the base flood elevation; said
base flood elevation shall he determined by one of the methods in Section 16. 48. 140( B) of this
chapter. (The State of California recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least two feet
above the base flood elevation as determined by community).
d. In all other zones, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
The State of California recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least two feet above the
base flood elevation.)
e. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall he certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor,
and verified by the community building inspector to be properly elevated. Such certification and
verification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
2. Nonresidential construction, new or improvement, shall either be elevated
to conform with Section 1648. 150( C)( 1) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities.
16. 48 ( 12) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
a. Be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under Section
16. 48. 150( C)( 1) so that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water;
b. Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
C. Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the standards of this Section 16. 18. 150( C)( 2) are satisfied. Such certification shall he provided
to the Floodplain Administrator.
3. Flood openings. All new construction and substantial improvement with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor ( excluding basements) that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject flooding shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and
exit of floodwater. Designs for meeting this requirement shall follow the guidelines in FEMA
Technical Bulletins TB 1- 93 and TB 7- 93, and must exceed the following minimum criteria:
a. For non- engineered openings:
i. Have a minimum of two openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
ii. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
iii. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves
or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater;
iv. Buildings with more than one enclosed area must have
openings on exterior walls for each area to allow flood water to directly enter; or
b. Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect.
4. Manufactured homes shall also meet the standards in Section 16. 48. 180.
5. Garages and low cost accessory structures.
a. Attached garages.
i. A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed
with the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic entry of
flood waters. See Section 16. 48. 150. C.3. Areas of the garage below the BFE must be
constructed with flood resistant materials. See Section 16. 48. 150. B.
ii. A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet
the above requirements or be dry floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking areas,
see FEMA Technical Bulletin TB- 6.
b. Detached garages and accessory structures. " Accessory
structures" used solely for parking ( 2 car detached garages or smaller) or limited storage ( small,
low cost sheds), as defined in Section 16. 48. 050, may be constructed such that its floor is below
the base flood elevation ( BFE), provided the structure is designed and constructed in
accordance with the following requirements:
i. Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking
or limited storage;
ii. The portions of the accessory structure located below the
BFE must be built using flood- resistant materials;
iii. The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
iv. Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory
structure must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
V. The accessory structure must comply with floodplain
encroachment provisions in Section 16. 48. 190; and
16. 48 ( 13) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
vi. The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with Section 16. 48. 150. C. 3.
C. Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in Section
16. 48. 150.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 160 Standards for Utilities
A. All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge from
systems into floodwaters.
B. On- site waste disposal systems shall he located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding.
Prior Code B; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 170 Standards for Subdivisions
A. All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the special flood hazard area
and the elevation of the base flood.
B. All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structure( s) and
pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final pad elevation shall he certified by a
registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
C. All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
D. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
F. All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 180 Standards for Manufactured Homes
A. All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within a
special flood hazard area on the community' s Flood Insurance Rate Maps, on sites located in
one of the below listed locations shall he elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation ( the
State of California recommends at least two feet above the base flood elevation) and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement.
1. Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
2. In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
3. In an expansion to an exiting manufactured home park or subdivision; or
4. In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred " substantial damage" as a result of a flood.
B. All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision within a special flood area on the community' s
Flood Insurance Rate Map that are not subject to the provisions of Paragraph 16. 48. 180A will
16. 48 ( 14) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
be securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement, and be elevated so that either the:
1. Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation ( the State of California recommends at least two feet above the base flood elevation),
or
2. Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36 inches in height
above grade.
C. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including
basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor, and verified by
the community budding inspector to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 185 Standards for Recreational Vehicles
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within special flood hazard areas as shown on
the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map will either:
A. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days:
B. Be fully licensed and ready for highway use - a recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has not permanently attached additions; or
C. Meet the permit requirements of this ordinance and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes in Section 16. 48. 180.
Ord. No. 97- 10, Enacted, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48. 190 Floodways
Located within areas of a special flood hazard established in Section 16. 48. 070 are
areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the
following provisions apply:
A. Until a regulatory floodway is adopted, no new construction, substantial
development, or other development, including fill, shall be permitted within Zones Al- 30 and
AE, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base
flood more than one foot at any point within the City of Vista.
B. Within an adopted regulatory floodway, the City of Vista shall prohibit
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
development unless certification by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
C. If Subsections ( A) and ( B) of this section are satisfied, all new construction,
substantial improvements, and other proposed new development shall comply with all other
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Sections 16. 48. 150 through 16. 48. 190.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended,
10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
16. 48 ( 15) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 48.200 Appeals and Variances
A. The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter.
B. The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is an
error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
C. In passing upon requests for variances, the City Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this chapter,
and the:
1. Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
2. Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
3. Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage
and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and future owners of the
property;
4. Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
5. Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
6. Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not
subject to flooding or erosion damage;
7. Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
8. Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
9. Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
10. Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport
of the flood waters expected at the site; and
11. Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
D. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice over
the signature of a community official that:
1. The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $ 25 for
100 of insurance coverage, and
2. Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and
property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the San Diego County Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner
so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
E. The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in its biennial report
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
F. Procedures for Council hearings on variances shall be governed by the
provisions of Chapter 18. 74 of this Code.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 97- 10, Amended, 05/ 13/ 97; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01;
Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07).
16. 48 ( 16) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 48.210 Conditions for Variances
The variance criteria set forth in this section of the ordinance are based on the general
principal of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in
nature. A variance may he granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics so
unusual that complying with the requirements of this ordinance would create an exceptional
hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristics must
pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
It is the duty of the City of Vista to help protect its citizens from flooding. This need is so
compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a structure built below flood level are so
serious that variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance
are quite rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only
be met if variances are strictly limited Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in this
ordinance are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met before a variance
can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which
alternatives other than a variance are more appropriate.
A. Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement and
other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one- half acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood
level, providing that the procedures of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond one- half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
B. Variances may he issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of
historic structures" as defined in Section 16. 48. 050 upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not, preclude the structure' s continued designation as a historic
structure and the valiance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
C. Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if any
increase in flood levels during, the base flood discharge would result.
D. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering die flood hazard, to afford relief. "Minimum necessary" means
to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the requirements of this chapter. For example,
in the case of a variance to any elevation requirement, this means the City Council need not
grant permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposes, but only to that elevation which the City Council believes will provide relief and
preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
E. Variances shall only be issued upon:
1. A showing of good and sufficient cause;
2. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
3. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances
cause fraud on or victimization of, the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
F. Variances may he issued for new construction, substantial improvements and for
other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use
provided that the provisions of Subsections ( A) through ( E) of this section are satisfied and that
the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during
the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
16. 48 ( 17) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
G. Upon consideration of the factors of Section 16. 48. 200 and the purposes of this
chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix B; Ord. No. 2001- 20, Amended, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 16. 48.220 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance is for any
reason held to he invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and adopted this Ordinance
and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more section, subsections, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
Ord. No. 2001- 20, Added, 10/ 09/ 01; Ord. No. 2007- 2, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07)
16. 48 ( 18) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.52
School Facilities Dedications and Fees
Sections
16. 52. 010 Authority
16. 52. 020 Purpose and Intent
16. 52. 030 Definitions
16. 52. 040 Notification of School Districts
16. 52. 050 School District Findings
16. 52. 060 Requirements of Notice of Findings
16. 52. 070 Public Review
16. 52. 080 Requirement of Fees and/ or Dedications
16. 52. 090 Payment of Fees by Small Subdivisions
16. 52. 100 Standards for Land Dedication and Fees
16. 52. 110 Fees for Interim Facilities
16. 52. 120 Filing Application for Residential Development
16. 52. 130 Decision Factors
16. 52. 140 School District Schedule
16. 52. 150 Use of Land and Fees
16. 52. 160 Fee Fund Records and Reports
16. 52. 170 Determination of Requirements
16. 52. 180 Refund of Paid Fees
16. 52. 190 Time of Land Dedication/ Fee Payment
16. 52. 200 Procedure for Collection of Fees
Section 16. 52.010 Authority
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 4. 7 ( commencing with
Section 65970) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 1)
Section 16. 52.020 Purpose and Intent
This chapter is intended to implement school facilities dedication and fees legislation
in the city and to provide authority whereby the City, affected school districts and applicants
for land development approvals may undertake reasonable steps to alleviate overcrowded
school facilities. This chapter is intended to provide alternative authority to that provided
under the California Environmental Quality Act, General Plan policies and elements of the
City, and state law to permit continued alleviation of conditions of overcrowding.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 2)
Section 16. 52.030 Definitions
Conditions of overcrowding" means that the total enrollment of a school, including
enrollment from proposed development, exceeds the capacity of such school as determined by
the governing body of the school district.
Dwelling unit" means a building or a portion thereof, or a mobilehome, designed for
residential occupation by one person or a group of two or more persons living together as a
domestic unit.
16. 52 ( l) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Reasonable methods for mitigating conditions of overcrowding" shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
1. Agreements between a subdivider and the affected school district whereby
temporary- use buildings will be leased to the school district.
2. The use of temporary- use buildings owned by the school district.
3. The use of temporary portable classrooms, student bussing, classroom double
sessions, year- round use of school facilities, school boundary realignments and elimination of
low- priority school facilities uses.
4. Other measures considered by the school district.
Residential development" means a project containing residential dwellings, including
mobile homes, of one or more units or a subdivision of land for the purpose of constructing one
or more residential dwelling units. Residential development includes, but is not limited to,
development plan, General Plan amendment, subdivision tentative map, subdivision final map,
parcel map, special use permit, site development plan, building permits and any discretionary
permit for residential use.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 3- 16C. 1. 1. 6)
Section 16. 52.040 Notification of School Districts
Upon receipt of an application for a residential development within an attendance area
where the findings required by Section 16. 52. 050 have been made, the Director of Planning
shall notify the affected school districts thereof. With the exception of applications for building
permits, such notification shall be made no later than 30 days prior to consideration of the
application by the City Council, Planning Commission or Planning Director.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 7)
Section 16. 52.050 School District Findings
If the governing body of the school district which operates an elementary or high school
in the city makes a finding supported by clear and convincing evidence that: ( a) conditions of
overcrowding exist in one or more attendance areas within the district which will impair the
normal functioning of educational programs, including the reason for such conditions existing,
and ( b) that all reasonable methods of mitigating conditions of overcrowding have been
evaluated and no feasible method for reducing such conditions exist, the governing body of the
school district shall notify the City Council. The notice of findings sent to the City shall specify
the mitigation measures considered by the school district. After the receipt of any notice of
findings complying with this section, the City Council shall determine whether it concurs in such
school district findings. If the City Council concurs in such findings, the provisions of Section
16. 52. 080 shall be applicable to actions taken on residential development by the City.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 8)
Section 16. 52.060 Requirements of Notice of Findings
Any notice of findings sent by a school district to the City Council shall specify:
A. The findings listed in Section 16. 52. 050;
B. The mitigation measures and methods, including those listed in Section
16. 52. 030 ( in the definition of " reasonable methods for mitigating conditions of overcrowding"),
and others considered by the school district, and any determination made concerning them by the
school district;
C. The boundaries of the overcrowded attendance area or areas.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 9)
16. 52 (2) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 52.070 Public Review
The City Council shall take no action on the notice of findings sent to the City pursuant to
Section 16. 52. 050 until the findings have been available to the public for 60 days after the date
of receipt by the City. The City Council shall concur or not concur with the notice of findings
within 61 days to 150 days after the date of receipt of the findings. The notice shall include a
report on the status of all completed applications to the office of local assistance for
determinations of eligibility under Chapter 22, Section 17700 et seq. of Part 10 of the Education
Code.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 10)
Section 16. 52.080 Requirement of Fees and/or Dedications
For the purpose of establishing an interim method of providing classroom facilities where
overcrowding conditions exist, as determined necessary pursuant to Section 16. 52. 050, the
dedication of land or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, as determined
by the City Council, Planning Commission or Planning Director, may be required as a condition
to the approval of a residential development, providing that all of the following occur:
A. The General Plan provides for the location of public schools;
B. The land or fees, or both, transferred to a school district shall be used only for the
purpose of providing interim elementary or high school classroom and related facilities, as
defined by the governing body of the district;
C. The location and amount of land to be dedicated or the amount of fees to be
paid, or both, shall bear a reasonable relationship and will be limited to the needs of the
community for interim elementary or high school facilities and shall be reasonably related and
limited to the need for schools caused by the development; and
D. The facilities to be constructed from such fees or the land to be dedicated, or
both, are consistent with the General Plan.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 11)
Section 16. 52.090 Payment of Fees by Small Subdivisions
Only the payment of fees shall be required in subdivisions containing fifty parcels or less.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 12)
Section 16. 52. 100 Standards for Land Dedication and Fees
The standards for the amount of dedicated land or fees to be required shall be
established by the governing board of each school district where a determination has been made
that conditions of overcrowding exist. Such standards and facts supporting them shall be
transmitted to the City Council. If the City Council concurs in such standards, they shall, until
revised, be used by the City Council, Planning Commission and Planning Director in situations
where dedications of land and/ or fees are required as a condition of approval of a residential
development. Nothing in this section shall prevent the City Council from establishing and using
standards other than those established by the school district in the event the City Council is
unable to concur in those transmitted by the district.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 13)
16. 52 (3) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 52.110 Fees for Interim Facilities
The fees for interim facilities shall not exceed the amount necessary to pay five annual
lease payments for the interim facilities.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 14)
Section 16. 52. 120 Filing Application for Residential Development
At the time of filing an application for approval of a residential development located
within an attendance area for which findings of overcrowding have been made, the applicant
shall, as part of such filing, indicate whether it prefers to dedicate land for school facilities, to
pay a fee in lieu thereof, or do a combination of these. If the applicant prefers to dedicate land, it
shall suggest the specific land.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 15)
Section 16. 52.130 Decision Factors
Upon receipt of notification, the governing board of the affected school district shall
determine whether to require a dedication of land within the development, payment of a fee in
lieu thereof or a combination of both. The school district shall then transmit the determination to
the Director of Planning for submission to the appropriate decision- making body for
concurrence. If the decision- making body concurs in such determination, it may at the time of its
consideration of a residential development application impose such requirements. In making this
determination, the following factors shall be considered:
A. Whether the lands offered for dedication will be consistent with the General Plan;
B. Whether the lands offered for dedication meet the criteria established by
Education Code Section 39000 et seq.;
C. The topography, soils, soils stability, drainage access, location and general utility
of land in the development available for dedication;
D. Whether the location and amount of lands proposed to be dedicated, or the
amount of fees to be paid, or both, will be a reasonable relationship and will be limited to the
needs of the community for interim elementary or high school facilities and will be reasonably
related and limited to the need for schools caused by the development;
E. If only a subdivision is proposed, whether it will contain fifty parcels or less;
F. If the school district has entered into an agreement with the applicant for the
residential development to mitigate conditions of overcrowding within the attendance area
covered by the application, the governing board shall, upon receipt of the notification, so advise
the Director of Planning and upon request transmit a copy thereof for submission to the
appropriate decision- making body for consideration.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 16)
Section 16. 52.140 School District Schedule
Following the action by a decision- making body of the City to require the dedication of
land or the payment of fees, or both, the Director of Planning shall notify each school district
affected thereby. The governing body of the school district shall submit, upon request, a
schedule specifying how it will use the land or fees, or both, to solve the conditions of
overcrowding. The schedule shall include the school sites to be used, the classroom facilities to
be made available, and the times when such facilities will be available. In the event the governing
body of the school district cannot meet the schedule, it shall submit modifications to the City
Council and the reasons for the modifications.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 18)
16. 52 (4) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 52. 150 Use of Land and Fees
All land or fees, or both, collected pursuant to this chapter and transferred to a school
district shall be used only for the purpose of providing interim elementary or high school
classroom and related facilities.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 18)
Section 16. 52. 160 Fee Fund Records and Reports
Any school district receiving funds pursuant to this chapter shall maintain a separate
account for any fees paid and shall file a report with the City Council on the balance in the
account at the end of the previous fiscal year and the facilities leased, purchased or constructed
during the previous fiscal year. In addition, the report shall specify which attendance areas
within the city will continue to be overcrowded when the fall term begins and where conditions of
overcrowding will no longer exist. Such report shall be filed by August 1 st of each year and shall
be filed more frequently at the request of the City.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 19)
Section 16. 52. 170 Determination of Requirements
When it is determined that conditions of overcrowding no longer exist in an attendance
area, the City shall cease levying any fee or requiring the dedication of any land pursuant to this
chapter for the area.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 20)
Section 16. 52. 180 Refund of Paid Fees
If a residential development approval is vacated or voided, and if the City or affected
school district still retains the land and/ or fees collected under this chapter therefore, and if the
applicant so requests, the City Council or the governing board of the school district shall order
the land and/ or fees returned to the applicant.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 21)
Section 16. 52. 190 Time of Land Dedication/ Fee Payment
When land is to be dedicated, it shall be offered for dedication prior to final discretionary
approval, such as, for example, before approval of a final map or special use permit. If payment
of a fee is required, such payment shall be made at the time building permits are approved and
issued, unless otherwise required by law.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 22)
Section 16. 52.200 Procedure for Collection of Fees
The City, through its applicable approval procedures, shall issue no building permit
under the aegis of this chapter unless and until the applicant has obtained a certificate from the
appropriate school district stating that fees have been paid or otherwise accounted for or land
dedicated.
Prior Code 16C- 1. 1. 23)
16. 52 (5) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 56
Street Dedications and Improvements
Sections:
16. 56.010 Dedication and Improvements Required
16. 56. 020 Maximum Area of Dedication Established
16. 56.030 Exemption - Prior Occupancy by Main Building
16. 56. 040 Exemption - Minor Work
16. 56.050 Dedication - Procedure
16. 56. 060 Dedication - Time of Completion
16. 56.070 Types of Guarantee Acceptable
16. 56. 080 Guarantee Provisions
16. 56.090 Release of Guarantee
16. 56. 100 Improvements Considered Complete When Guarantee Accepted
16. 56. 110 Standards Established
16. 56. 120 Single-Family Residential Zones on One-Half Acre or Larger Parcels
16. 56. 130 Single- Family Residential Zones
16. 56. 140 Multi- Family Residential Zones
15. 56. 141 Commercial and Industrial Zones
16. 56. 142 Hillside Streets
16. 56. 143 Speed Bumps
16. 56. 144 Additional Requirements; Collector Streets and Prime Arterials
16. 56. 145 Reasonable Deviations Allowed
16. 56. 146 City Participation Allowed
16. 56. 150 Reimbursement from Property Benefited by Publicly Constructed
Improvements
16. 56. 160 Publicly Constructed Improvements - Hearings and Reimbursement Charges
16. 56. 170 Precedence of Title 17
Section 16. 56.010 Dedication and Improvements Required
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or structure shall be erected,
and no building permit shall be issued therefore, on any lot or parcel of land, if such parcel abuts
a public street, unless one- half of the street abutting such lot or parcel has been dedicated and
improved so as to meet the standards for such public streets provided in this chapter, or such
dedication and improvement has been guaranteed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
Construction of street improvements may be deferred by paying an amount as specified in the
City' s fee schedule if the City Engineer determines that construction would cause a traffic
hazard, drainage problem or serve no benefit to the public in the immediate future.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 1)
Section 16. 56.020 Maximum Area of Dedication Established
The maximum area of land to be dedicated under this chapter shall not exceed 25% of
the area of the total parcel of land on which the building will be located.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 3)
16. 56 (l) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 56.030 Exemption - Prior Occupancy by Main Building
No dedication or improvement shall be required on any lot or parcel occupied by a main
building which existed on December 15, 1964, unless reconstruction of the main building is
proposed where the value of the reconstruction ( or renovations) of the main building and any
proposed accessory structures equals or exceeds 75% of the value of the main building. The
value of the reconstruction ( or renovation) for a property shall include the value of all
construction originating from construction related permits issued within the last two years.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 4; Ord. No. 81- 20, Enacted, 3/ 09/ 81; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 16. 56.040 Exemption - Minor Work
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following types of construction:
additions, swimming pools, alterations and accessory buildings, incidental to a residential
dwelling or dwellings, legally existing on such lot or parcel that do not create an additional
dwelling unit.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 6)
Section 16. 56.050 Dedication - Procedure
Any person required to dedicate land under the provisions of this chapter shall execute
and deliver an easement deed, grant deed or irrevocable offer of dedication. Said documents
shall be on a form approved by the City Attorney and executed by all parties of interest,
including beneficiaries and trustees in deeds of trust. The description of the land to be
dedicated shall be approved by the City Engineer who shall, upon receipt of such documents
and approval of the content thereof, promptly transmit same to the City Clerk who shall cause
them to be recorded with the Recorder of San Diego County.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 7)
Section 16. 56.060 Dedication - Time of Completion
For the purpose of this chapter, dedication shall be considered to be complete upon
acceptance and approval of the document by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27- 1. 1. 8)
Section 16. 56.070 Types of Guarantee Acceptable
Any person required to make improvements under the provisions of this chapter shall
either make and complete the same to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or shall file with the
City Engineer a bond, or other suitable guarantee, as described in Subsections ( A) through ( E)
of this section, in such an amount as the City Engineer shall estimate and determine to be
necessary to complete all of the improvements required. Such bond shall be one of the
following:
A. A cash bond;
B. An instrument of credit from an approved financial institution;
C. A bond executed by a company authorized to act as a surety in this state;
D. A fee in lieu of construction in the amount of current year construction costs plus
30% for engineering design and contingencies will be deposited with the City. Construction cost
estimates will be on a pro rata basis for full street improvements. These monies will be put into
a restricted assets account for actual construction of improvements in the public rights- of-way
for that street; and
16. 56 (2) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Such other type of guarantee as may be approved by the City Council.
Prior Code 27- 1. 2. 1)
Section 16. 56.080 Guarantee Provisions
A. Any bond filed shall be payable to the City and be conditioned upon the
execution of an improvement agreement under the terms and conditions set forth in Section
16. 56. 080( B) requiring the faithful performance of any and all work required to be done, and
specifying that should such work not be done or completed in the time required, the City may, at
its option, cause the same to be done or completed and the parties executing the bond shall be
firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary costs and expenses
incurred in the construction thereof. The improvement agreement shall be in the form approved
by the City Attorney. Whenever the owner elects to deposit a cash bond, the City Engineer
may, after approval by the City Council, use any or all of the deposit money to cause the
required work to be completed. Any monies remaining after completion of the work shall be
refunded to the owner.
B. The City Engineer, or his designee, is authorized to execute improvement
agreements on behalf of the City subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. The term of the improvement agreement shall not exceed two years, nor
be extended for more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the improvement
agreement.
2. The amount of the security to be deposited shall be based on the
estimate of the cost of the improvements approved by the City Engineer.
3. The improvements shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer.
4. The improvements shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary manner at
the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who shall hold
the City harmless with respect thereto.
Prior Code 27- 1. 2. 2; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 00)
Section 16. 56.090 Release of Guarantee
Security for the construction of improvements required under this chapter may be
released only by action of the City Council, who may establish an administrative service fee for
partial release of security.
Prior Code 27- 1. 2. 3)
Section 16. 56. 100 Improvements Considered Complete When Guarantee Accepted
Security for the construction of improvements required under this chapter may be
released by the approval of the City Engineer, or his designee. The City Council may establish
an administrative service fee for partial release of security.
Prior Code 27- 1. 2. 4; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 00)
Section 16. 56. 110 Standards Established
All streets shall be constructed and improved in accordance with the following minimum
standards.
A. Arterial streets, collector streets, and minor collector streets shall be constructed
in conformance with those standards established in the circulation element of the City of Vista
General Plan.
16. 56 (3) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Local streets, other than cul- de- sac streets, rural roads and semi- rural streets,
shall be dedicated to a width of 60 feet with 40 feet of roadway, centered upon the right- of-way.
Standard vertical concrete curbs ( not colored) on both sides shall be provided.
C. Cul- de- sac streets, other than rural roads and semi- rural streets, shall be
dedicated to a width of 56 feet with 36 feet of roadway, centered upon the right-of-way. Cul- desac
streets constructed to this standard shall have a maximum length of 600 feet unless
otherwise approved because of mitigating circumstances. Standard vertical concrete curbs ( not
colored) on both sides shall be provided.
D. Hillside streets consist of all local streets so designated by the City Council prior
to September 14, 2007 ( effective date of this ordinance). Subsequent to September 14, 2007
effective date of this ordinance), no local streets shall be designated hillside streets. Streets
previously designated as hillside streets shall be developed using the semi- rural street
standards under Subsection ( J) of this section, unless the required modification would interfere
with vested legal rights, the required street construction per hillside street standards has already
occurred, has commenced, or the City Planner makes a determination that hillside street
standards need to be followed in order to ensure street design continuity and consistency.
E. The parkway portion of all streets as set forth in ( A) through ( D) above, shall be
improved as set forth in this division.
F. Street trees shall be required in all parkways at the rate of a minimum of one per
lot or one per each 40 feet of frontage, whichever results in the greater number of trees.
Species shall be approved by the City Engineer.
G. All improvements required to be made by the provisions of this division shall be
done in accordance with the latest edition of the " Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction," the San Diego County Regional Standard Drawings, and such other standard
details and drawings as may, from time to time, be approved by the City Engineer.
H. Specific plans and development agreements may set other standards for road
improvements provided said standards conform to the General Plan.
I. Alternate Standards for Rural Roads
Rural roads consist of all local streets so designated by the City Planner prior to
September 14, 2007 ( effective date of this ordinance). Subsequent to September 14, 2007
effective date of this ordinance), no local streets shall be designated rural roads. Streets
previously designated as rural roads shall be developed using the semi- rural street standards
under Subsection ( J) of this section, unless the required modification would interfere with vested
legal rights, the required street construction per rural road standards has already occurred, has
commenced, or the City Planner makes a determination that rural road standards need to be
followed in order to ensure street design continuity and consistency.
Classification: Local
Dedicated width: 60 feet
Paved width: 28 feet (two 14- foot lanes) with a minimum traffic index of 6. 0.
Edge condition: Concrete mountable rolled curbs on both sides ( in accordance
with Standard Plan G- 4).
Parkway (varies): 16 feet each side with meandering decomposed granite ( Class
3AB), asphalt, or concrete walkway five feet to eight feet wide with a structural section approved
by the City Engineer. Type of surface must be approved by the City Planner in addition to
meeting handicap accessibility requirements.
Utility Undergrounding: In accordance with the requirements of the Municipal
Code.
Lighting: For safety purposes only, at intersections and as required by the City
Engineer.
Miscellaneous:
1. A storm drain system to adequately handle drainage.
16. 56 (4) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Periodic turnouts for parking ( 8 feet by 24 feet) as required by the City
Engineer.
3. Fire lane signs as required by the Fire Marshal.
4. Thematic fencing or other design element on one or both sides of the
roadway at major intersections as required by the City Planner.
J. Semi- Rural Street Standard
Determination: Streets satisfying the definition of Section 18. 02. 623 shall
constitute semi- rural streets.
Dedicated Width: 40 feet
Paved Width: 28 feet (two 14- foot lanes) with a minimum traffic index of 6. 0.
Edge Condition: Standard vertical concrete curbs ( not colored) on both sides.
Parkway: Six-foot landscaped parkways on each side of the street, no sidewalks.
No sidewalks will be permitted on the following previously designated two- lane light collector
streets: Alta Vista Drive and Warmlands Avenue from East Vista Way to Vista Grande Drive ( a
10- foot wide parkway/sidewalk would typically be required on these two- lane light collector
streets). On streets identified for pedestrian facilities in the General Plan, one of the parkways
shall be expanded to 12 feet to accommodate the pedestrian facilities.
Utility Undergrounding: In accordance with the requirements of the Development
Code.
Lighting: Street lights shall only be required for traffic safety purposes and as
required by the City' s Engineer. For example, street lights shall be located at intersections,
sharp curves in roads, and at end of cul- de-sacs where the cul- de-sac length exceeds 400 feet.
High pressure sodium lights shall be used.
Miscellaneous:
1. A storm drain system shall be installed to adequately handle drainage.
2. Fire lane signs shall be provided as required by the Fire Marshal.
3. Periodic accommodations for off-street parking within proposed
subdivisions shall be provided in accordance with Section 18. 54.050G.
Prior Code 27- 1. 3. 1 ; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91 ; Ord. No. 99- 19,
Amended, 9/ 28/ 99; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
16. 56 (5) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
SEMI-RURAL STREET STANDARD FOR
LOCAL PUBLIC STREETS IN
A- 1 E- 1. R- 1 ZONES WITHIN SEMI- RURAL AREAS
AND CIRCULATION ELEMENT STREETS**
NO PARKING EITHER SIDE)
R/ w R/ W RAW
28
4m'
CL
2%
2%
6INCH CONCRETE ' CURB AND GUMER NO COLOR)
BOTH SIDES PER S. D. R.S. D G- 2
A.C. PAVEMENT OVER CLASS 11
AGGREGATE BASE MATERIAL, T.I.  6. 0.
MIN. PAVEMENT SECTION 4" AC ON 8" CLASS 11
WHEN SPECIFIED BY GENERAL PLAN, PARKWAY
ON ONE SIDE SHALL BE EAXPANDED TO 12 FE-77
TO ACCOMMODATE PEDESTRIAN FACILFIES.
7, 900 OR FEWER AVERAGE DAILY TRIPS BASED ON
2030 PROJECTED AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFMC VOLUMES.
ITY 0 i VIS 1 13H E ET
I
CITY ENGINEEIR R. C. E. DATE: IS AN DAR D DRAWINCI
A ' Nr" SCAf E: N. T. S. SETA- RURAL S; i r D. G,._ R E
A N LNA!B R: D 1 0M. DWG STr%ND.AJRD E
16. 56 (6) Vista 9/ 14/ 07)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 56. 120 Single-Family Residential Zones on One-Half Acre or Larger Parcels
If the development is located in a single- family zone district where the minimum parcel
size is one- half acre or larger, the following improvements shall be required:
A. Local streets within the subdivision shall be improved with a curb to curb paved
section pursuant to City specifications.
B. Each parkway shall include a concrete curb and concrete driveway approaches.
C. No sidewalks will be permitted on local public streets in zones A- 1 and E- 1 and
on the following streets ( Alta Vista Drive and Warmlands Avenue from East Vista Way to Taylor
Street).
D. Local streets abutting the development shall be improved to the same standards
as in Subsections ( A), ( B), and ( C) of this section, except that streets shall only be improved to
half-street standards plus 12 feet.
E. Subsection ( D) of this section shall not be applicable where through streets
abutting the development are fully improved adjacent to the development to a different standard.
If such is the case, such different standards shall be continued unless it requires less
improvements, and in that event, Subsection ( D) shall be applicable.
F. New collector streets or prime arterials shall be improved to full width standards
within the development. Streets abutting said development shall be improved to one half-street
standards set forth in the Circulation Element of the General Plan.
Prior Code 27- 1. 3. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended,
8/ 14/ 07)
Section 16. 56. 130 Single- Family Residential Zones
If the minimum parcel size is less than one- half acre and the development is located in a
single- family zone district, the following improvements shall be required:
A. Local streets within the development shall be improved with a curb to curb paved
section as required by City specifications and with a parkway as specified herein.
B. Each parkway shall be improved with concrete curb and gutter, concrete
driveway approaches and five foot wide contiguous concrete sidewalks. No sidewalks will be
permitted on local public streets in R- 1 zone with semi- rural character and on the following
streets ( Alta Vista Drive and Warmlands Avenue from East Vista Way to Taylor Street).
C. Local streets abutting the development shall be improved as required in
Subsections ( A) and ( B) of this section, except that streets shall be improved to half-street
standards plus 12 feet.
D. Subsection ( C) of this section shall not be applicable where through streets
abutting the development are fully improved adjacent to the development to different standards.
If such is the case such different standards shall be continued unless it requires less
improvement, and in that event, Subsection ( C) shall be applicable.
E. Collector or prime arterial streets within the development shall be improved to full
width standards required for the collector or prime arterial with concrete curbs, and sidewalks at
the discretion of the City Engineer.
F. Collector streets or prime arterials abutting the subdivision shall be improved to
one half-street standards set forth in the Circulation Element of the General Plan.
Prior Code 27- 1. 3. 3; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended
8/ 14/ 07)
Section 16. 56. 140 Multi- Family Residential Zones
If the development is located in a multi- family residential zone district, the following
improvements shall be required:
16. 56 (7) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. Local streets within the development shall be improved with a curb to curb
paved section as required by the City specifications and with a parkway as specified herein.
B. Each parkway shall be improved with concrete curb and gutter, concrete
driveway approaches, and five foot wide sidewalks.
C. Local streets abutting the development shall be improved as required in
Subsections ( A) and ( B) of this section, except that streets need only be improved to half street
standards plus 12 feet.
D. Subsection ( C) of this section shall not be applicable where through streets
abutting the development are fully improved to different standards. If such is the case, such
different standards shall be continued unless it requires less improvement, and in that event,
Subsection ( C) of this section shall be applicable.
E. Collector or prime arterial streets within development shall be improved to one of
the following standards at the discretion of the City Council:
1. Improvement to full 60 foot width standards with the center left for future
improvement; or
2. Full paving to the standards required for collector or prime arterials with
asphaltic berm and sidewalks at the discretion of the City Engineer.
F. Collector streets or prime arterials abutting the subdivision shall be improved
pursuant to ( 1) or ( 2) of Subsection ( E) to half street standards plus 12 feet.
Prior Code 27- 1. 3. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 56. 141 Commercial and Industrial Zones
If the development is located in a commercial or industrial or other non- residential zone
district, the following improvements shall be required:
A. Local streets within the development shall be improved with a curb to curb paved
section as required by the City specifications with a parkway as specified herein.
B. Each parkway shall be improved with concrete curb and gutter, concrete
driveway approaches and ten foot wide concrete sidewalks, except that if the parkway is less
than ten feet in width, the sidewalk shall be extended from curb to property lines.
C. Local streets abutting the development shall be improved to half-street standards
plus 12 feet.
D. Collector streets or prime arterial streets within the development shall be
improved to one of the following standards at the discretion of the City Engineer:
1. Improvement of full 60 foot width street standards, leaving the center for
future improvement.
2. Full paving to the standards required for the collector street or prime
arterial with asphaltic berm and sidewalks.
E. Collector streets or prime arterials abutting the development shall be improved
pursuant to ( 1) or ( 2) of Subsection ( D) to half-street standards plus 12 feet.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 56. 142 Hillside Streets
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2005- 6, Amended, 3/ 22/ 05; Ord. No. 2007- 12,
Repealed, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 16. 56. 143 Speed Bumps
Speed bumps and speed humps are prohibited on public streets unless otherwise
approved by the City Engineer.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 94- 28, Amended, 11/ 22/ 94)
16. 56 (8) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 56. 144 Additional Requirements; Collector Streets and Prime Arterials
If the development will generate greater traffic than that which is normal for local streets
and the development contains a collector street or prime arterial, full improvement of the
collector street or prime arterial street shall be required.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 56. 145 Reasonable Deviations Allowed
The City Engineer may approve and allow such reasonable variations and deviations
from the aforesaid requirements as he deems as necessitated by the conditions of the terrain
and the existing improvements contiguous to the property involved.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 56. 146 City Participation Allowed
Upon written application to the City Council and recommendation of the City Engineer,
the City may provide for contribution toward the cost of making any improvement required by
the provision of this section which the City Engineer determines will cost an amount greatly in
excess of the cost of other property owners who are required to make nearby similar
improvements.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 56. 150 Reimbursement from Property Benefited by Publicly Constructed
Improvements
Whenever public improvements, including, but not limited to, the construction of public
street improvements, such as curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights and pavement, storm
drainage facilities, public sanitary sewer facilities, grading, traffic signals and appurtenances
thereof, have been constructed and the costs paid by the City, the City Engineer may, upon final
inspection and acceptance of the improvements by the City determine:
A. The cost of such improvements;
B. The boundary of the area of all property benefited; and
C. The allocation of the cost of construction of the public improvements to the
various parcels of property in the benefit area.
Prior Code 27- 1. 4. 1)
Section 16. 56. 160 Publicly Constructed Improvements - Hearings and Reimbursement
Charges
A. The City Council shall hold a public hearing to establish the area of benefit and
reimbursement charge which shall be allocated to all parcels in the area of benefit. This
reimbursement charge shall only be established if the City Council can make the following
findings: ( 1) the reimbursement charge is reasonably related to the cost of such public
improvements; and ( 2) that the area of benefit is the ultimate beneficiary of the public
improvements. The City Engineer shall report on the reasonableness of the cost of the
construction of the public improvements, and the City Council may reduce the reimbursement
charge if found to be unreasonable. The City Council shall adopt a resolution setting forth the
above findings, and include: ( 1) the legal descriptions of each parcel of property in the area of
benefit; ( 2) the reimbursement charge to be allocated to and imposed upon each parcel of
property in the area of benefit; and ( 3) the identity of the owner. A certified copy of such
resolution shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
16. 56 (9) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. In addition to the notice required by Section 66451. 3 of the Government Code,
written notice of the hearing shall be given to the owners of property within the proposed area of
benefit, as well as to potential users of the constructed public improvements insofar as they can
be ascertained by the latest equalized assessment roll. Such notices shall be mailed by the City
Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date established for the City Council public hearing.
C. If a majority of the property owners subject to a majority of the reimbursement
charge in the area of benefit object to the reimbursement charge, the City Council may approve
the reimbursement charge by a majority affirmative vote.
D. Any person who files a Tentative Map or Tentative Parcel Map or applies for a
Building Permit within 20 years from the date the reimbursement charge is in effect, shall pay
the reimbursement charge prior to the filing of the Final Map or Parcel Map or the issuance of
the Building Permit. However, the reimbursement charge shall not be required if the Building
Permit is for improving an existing single-family residential home, and the improvements will not
change or intensify the residential land use.
E. Any reimbursement charge paid within the 20 year period set forth in Subsection
D) of this section shall include the principal charge plus interest from the date the
reimbursement charge was in effect at prime rate. " Prime rate" means the average prime rate
for the year immediately preceding each anniversary date the reimbursement charge was in
effect as determined by Bank of America, N.A. Upon payment of said charge, the City Clerk
shall record with the County Recorder a notice satisfactory to the City Attorney that said charge
has been paid on said parcel.
Prior Code 27- 1. 4. 2)
Section 16. 56. 170 Precedence of Title 17
Nothing in this chapter shall conflict with the powers and duties of the City Council and
advisory bodies as described in Chapter 17 of this code.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
16. 56 ( 10) Vista 4/ 11/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 57
Private Street and Driveway Standards
Sections:
16. 57.010 Scope of Regulations
16. 57.020 Standards for Private Streets
16. 57.030 Design Standards for Private Streets
16. 57.040 Development Criteria for Private Streets ( Required for Three or More
Single-Family Residential Lots)
16. 57.050 Private Streets Prohibited in Certain Zones
16. 57.060 Private Access for Commercial or Industrial Developments
16. 57.070 Access in Mobile Home Parks
16. 57.080 Speed Bumps and Speed Humps on Private Property
16. 57.090 Private Driveways
Section 16. 57.010 Scope of Regulations
All development of private streets and driveways shall conform to the regulations and
standards of this chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 57.020 Standards for Private Streets
All use of private streets shall conform to the following standards:
A. Private streets may be allowed in new developments only where their use is
logically consistent with a desire for neighborhood identification and control of access, and where
special overall design concepts may be involved.
B. The use of private streets shall be limited to local interior residential streets not
carrying through traffic. There must be positive finding that there is no potential to serve additional
property.
C. Private streets shall be permitted only where a satisfactory means of assuring for
their maintenance and operations is demonstrated by the developer and approved by the City
Attorney.
D. The design of all private streets shall be in accordance with City standards and
shall be reviewed and approved by the Engineering Department, and the construction shall be
inspected by the Engineering Department, with a standard inspection fee to be paid.
E. The use of private streets as a device for permitting inadequate design shall not
be allowed.
F. The Homeowners' Association constitution, by- laws or covenants- conditionsrestrictions
shall include acknowledgment of the ownership and maintenance responsibility of
these private facilities.
G. The entire width of the traveled way of the private street may be required to be
dedicated to the City as a permanent sewer and public utilities easement, i. e. the easements
granted to the City shall take precedence and have prior rights over any other easement.
H. The City shall assume no responsibility for enforcement of parking and traffic
control except fire lane enforcement unless specifically requested and approved.
I. Where streets are constructed to such standards that eliminate parking on one or
both sides of the street, appropriate signs reading, " No Parking Fire Lane," shall be erected where
parking has been eliminated.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
16. 57 (l) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 57.030 Design Standards for Private Streets
All private streets shall conform to the design standards of this division.
A. A standard crown section with concrete curb and gutter on both sides shall be
required along all private streets. Modified rolled concrete curbs shall be required in rural and
semi- rural areas except that vertical concrete curbs shall apply in the case of private streets with
a maximum street grade of greater than seven percent.
B. Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be provided on all private streets within
the R- 1 and higher density zoning districts, except when private streets are located within the R-
1 zones in semi- rural areas, in which case no sidewalk shall be provided. Alternate means of
accommodating pedestrian traffic may be allowed as part of project approval.
C. Street lighting adequate for pedestrian and vehicular safety shall be provided as
approved by the City Engineer. Along semi- rural streets, street lights shall only be required for
traffic safety purposes and as required by the City' s Engineer. Locations requiring street lights
include intersections, sharp curves in roads, and at the end of cul- de- sacs where cul- de- sac
length exceeds 400 feet. High pressure sodium lights shall be used.
D. Adequate signs, conforming with the Vista City Code relating to signing shall be
provided and maintained at all entrances to private streets clearly designating the private street
status of such streets.
E. All private cul- de- sac streets shall include, at each street terminus, acceptable
turnarounds to accommodate a 40-foot turning radius. No " hammerhead" turnarounds shall be
accepted unless otherwise approved by the City Planner. Cul- de- sac street access facilities shall
not exceed 600 feet, unless otherwise approved because of mitigating circumstances.
F. A Homeowner's Association ( HOA) shall be formed. The bylaws or covenants,
conditions and restrictions for the HOA, using City-approved language, shall specify maintenance
responsibility for private streets and associated public and private improvements.
G. Where special circumstances exist, deviations from the standards may be
approved by the City Engineer provided that the changes do not adversely affect the public health,
safety or welfare.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 16. 57.040 Development Criteria for Private Streets ( Required for Three or More
Single-Family Residential Lots)
Private streets are required for developments of three or more single-family residential
lots. Private streets shall meet the criteria of the following table and typical sections:
16. 57 (2) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PRIVATE STREET STANDARDS
FOR STREETS SERVING A POTENTIAL OF THREE OR MORE LOTS)
Minimum Graded
Road Paved Traffic 5' Shoulder
Case Lot Size Easement P. U. E. Width Index M Curb and Gutter S.W. S.L. Required
1. Smaller 46' 5' 36' 5. 5 Yes Yes Yes 5' each
than 0.50 each side
acre; side P. U. E.)
600'
maximum
length
2. Smaller 50' 5' 40' 5. 5 Yes Yes Yes 5' each
than 0.50 each side
acre; side P. U. E.)
Longer
than 600'
in length
3. Smaller 40' 5' one 32' 5. 5 Yes Yes Yes 5' one side
than 0.50 side on P. U. E.)
acre one
single side
loaded
4. R- 1 35' 3' 24' 5. 0 Modified rolled No ( a) 3' each
zoned each curb both sides. side
lots side Vertical concrete No
within curbs when parking(
b)
semi- maximum street
rural grade is greater
areas than 7 percent
5. 0.50 acre 35' 3' 24' 5. 0 Modified rolled No ( a) 3' each
or larger each curb both sides. side
side Vertical concrete No
curbs when parking(
b)
maximum street
grade is greater
than 7 percent
a) Street lights for safety at intersections, at end of cul- de- sacs where cul- de-sac length exceeds 400 feet
and where sharp curves are located.
b) Provide periodic accommodations for off-street parking within proposed subdivisions. Refer to Section
18. 54.050G for specific requirements.
c)Minimum pavement section shall be 3" AC over 5" Class II base material.
NOTE: Minimum street standards shall be increased, if warranted by traffic analysis, as determined by
City Engineer.
Abbreviations:
R/W Right-of-Way
P. U. E. Public Utility Easement adjacent to R/W
S.W. Sidewalk contiguous to curb and gutter
S.L. Public street light in lighting district
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
16. 57 (3) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PRIVATE STREETS FOR
LOTS < 0. 50 ACRE ( 000' MAX LENGTH)
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT ( PUE)
FOR STREET LIGHTS, FIRE HYDRANTS,
ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BOXES
46* PRIVATE STREET EASEMENT
23' 23'
36' CURB TO CURB
5' 5.
CL
is'
c62. ooh
2% 2%
4
liiiiili 131 Z
4- INCH SIDEWALK PER
SDRSD G- 7 ON NATIVE*
6- INCH CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER ( NO COLOR)
RUTH SIDES PER S. D.R3,I) 63- 2
A. C. PAVEMENT OVER CLASS 11
AGGREGATE BASE MATERIAL, T. I. = 5.5
IF EXIST. SUBGRADE Ra25 OTHERWISE
6" 0 F CLASS II BASE AT 95% REL. COMP.
CITY OF VISTA
SHEET I of I
CITY ENGINEER R. C. E. DATE: STANDARD DRAWING
SCALE: N. T. S. PRIVATE STREET STANDARD DRAWING
10- Cl
D- 1 0- C1, DWG CASE 1 NUMBER:
16. 57 (4) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PRIVATE STREETS FOR
LOTS < 0. 50 ACRE (LENGTH > 6001)
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT ( PUE)
FOR STREET LIGHTS, FIRE HYDRANTS.
ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BOXES
50' PRIVATE STREET EASEMENT
5' 5' 40' CURB TO CURB
20
CL
20
2% ti
4- INCH SIDEWALK PER
SORSD G-- 7 ON NATIVE"
B- INCH CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER ( NO COLOR)
BOTH SIDES PER S. D. R. S. D G- 2
A.C. PAVEMENT OVER CLASS v
AGGREGATE BASE MATERIAL, T. E. = 5. 5
IF EXIST, SUBGRAOE R= OTHERWISE
6' OF CLASS If BASE AT 95% RE L. COMP.
CITY OF VISTA
TY ENGINEER R. C. E. DATE: STANDARD DRAWING SHEET 1 of
SCALE' N. T. S. PRIVATE STREET STANDARD DRAWINNGG
p_ Ta- CZ. DwG CASE 2 NUMBER,
16. 57 (5) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PRIVATE SINGLE- LOADED STREET FOR
LOTS E 0. 50 ACRE (PARKING ONE SIDE ONLY)
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT ( PUE)
FOR STREET LIGHTS. FIRE HYDRANTS,
ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE BOXES
40' PRIVATE STREET EASEMENT
32' CURB TO CURB
3' 16'
CL
16 5
2fi zq
4- INCH SIDEWALK PER
SDRSD G- 7 ON NATIVE*
6-- INCH CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER ( NO COLOR)
BOTH SIDES PER S. D. R. S. D G- 2
A.C. PAVEMENT OVER CLASS 11
AGGREGATE BASE MATERIAL, T.I. 5,5
IF EXIST. SJBGRAI) E R! 25 OTHERWISE
OF CLASS II BASE AT 95%v REL, COMP.
CITY OF VISTA
SHEET 1 of 1 CITY ENGINEER R. C, E, DATE: STANDARD DRAWING
SCALE: N. T. S. PRIVATE STREET STANDARD DRAWING
10 3 D- 1 o- C3. DWG CASE 3 NUMBER:
16. 57 (6) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PRIVATE STREETS FOR
R- 1 ZONED LOTS WITHIN SEMI RURAL AREAS (CASE 4)
AND LOTS 0, 50 ACRE OR LARGER (CASE 5)
NO PARKING EITHER SIDE)
35' PRIVATE STREET AND UTILITY EASEMENT
FL 24' FLOWLINE TO F' LOWLINE FL
CL
5. 5' 12' 12' 5. 5'
r
3' 2. 5' 1. 0' 1. 0 2. 5' 3'
tt+
G
rti+x.
5x IAA%
MODIFIED ROLLED CONCRETE CURB/ GUTTERBOTH
SIDES --- NO COLOR)
A.C. PAVEMENT OVER CLASS 11
AGGREGATE BASE MATERIAL, T. 1. = 5. 0
VERTICAL. CURS REQUIRED WHEN
STREET GRADE a 7%
CITY OF VISTA
SHEET 1 of 1
ENGINEER R. C. E. DATE: STANDARD DRAWING
SCALE: N. T. S. PRIVATE STREET STANDARD DRAWING
1 O- C4
D- 10- C4 DwG CASES 4 & 5 NUMBER:
16. 57 (7) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 16. 57.050 Private Streets Prohibited in Certain Zones
No lots zoned for multi- family, commercial, or industrial uses may be created using private
street easements for access, except as provided in this division.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 57.060 Private Access for Commercial or Industrial Developments
Commercial or industrial developments may be created where some of the lots or
buildings have no public street access provided:
A. The development has a minimum public street frontage of 200 feet.
B. There is a common lot which fronted on the public street and all other lots or
buildings have road, landscaping, parking access over the common lots.
C. Each lot or building has access rights over all areas designated for landscaping,
parking and road access.
D. The development has a minimum of two points of ingress to the public street, each
of which is no less than 24 feet wide.
E. The rights of access and other rights are guaranteed by recorded instrument
approved by the City.
F. The interior access and parking locations meet City specifications.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 57.070 Access in Mobile Home Parks
Mobile home parks which were previously approved shall use private roads developed to
standards used in the approval of the park.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 16. 57.080 Speed Bumps and Speed Humps on Private Property
A. Speed humps are prohibited on private fire apparatus access roads unless first
approved by the Fire Department in writing. An applicant for speed humps on a private fire
apparatus access road shall submit a drawing to the Fire Department showing the location of all
proposed speed humps and the distance between the speed humps for review and approval. The
shape and height of the proposed speed humps shall conform to published City standards.
B. For purposes of this section, a fire apparatus access road means: A road that
provides fire apparatus access from a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is
a general term inclusive of all other terms such as a fire lane, public street, private street, parking
lot lane and access roadway.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 94- 28, Amended, 11/ 22/ 94; Ord. No. 2000- 6, Amended,
10/ 10/00; Ord. No. 2014- 21, Amended, 9/ 23/ 14)
Section 16. 57.090 Private Driveways
A. Private driveways within or serving any residential development, professional
office, commercial or industrial development, shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the following standards, and as provided elsewhere in this Code:
1. Single-family
a. A single-family residence shall have a driveway paved to a width of
16 feet. If the required guest parking spaces are to be provided in front of the garage, the driveway
length shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the face of the garage to the property line. Where a
16. 57 (8) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
single- family dwelling is served by a fee strip ( panhandle or flag lot) the fee strip shall be not less
than 20 feet in width with a paved width of 16 feet.
b. Driveways for vehicular access shall serve no more than two lots.
Two adjacent lots utilizing common driveway access shall collectively provide an access
easement of at least 28 feet in width with at least 14 feet being on each property. A driveway
serving two single- family dwelling units shall be paved 16 feet wide with concrete paving and base
meeting a structural design with a Traffic Index of 4. 5 or 5. 5" of concrete paving over 6" of Class
II base material as approved by the City Engineer. In the event that a second unit and/ or a
guesthouse is added to both or one of the lots, the driveway providing shared access to all of the
units shall be paved to total width of 24 feet. Unpaved area on one side only or both sides of the
driveway shall be provided to allow adequate space for landscaping and utilities for the length of
such driveway. "No Parking Fire Lane" signs may be required to be posted along the driveway.
C. Reciprocal access easements and a maintenance agreement shall
be required for joint driveway access.
d. When more than two lots are served by a private access, the private
access shall be developed as a private street in accordance with Sections 16. 57. 030 and
16. 57.040, and not as a private driveway.
2. Multi- family. Driveways serving multi- family development shall have a
minimum paved width of not less than 24 feet. The width of the paved driveway shall remain
free and clear of any obstructions. In no case shall such driveway exceed 300 feet in length.
3. Driveways on which parallel parking is permitted within the travel way on
one side only, shall have a minimum improved ( paved) width of not less than 32 feet to
accommodate parallel parking spaces that are eight feet wide plus 24 feet of travel lane.
4. Driveways on which parallel parking is permitted within the travel way on
both sides shall have a minimum improved (paved) width of not less than 40 feet to accommodate
parallel parking spaces that are eight feet wide plus 24 feet of travel lane.
5. Driveways designed as, or designated by the Fire Chief of the City of Vista
as " fire lanes," shall be made subject to public enforcement of all parking restrictions in
accordance with the California Vehicle Code, including Section 21107 thereof.
6. Commercial, office and industrial ( manufacturing) uses served by a single
driveway shall have a width or not less than 24 feet. If two separate driveways are used, one for
entry and the other for exit, the width of each shall be increased to a width sufficient to
accommodate the width and/ or depth of any parking stalls adjacent thereto.
B. Driveway slopes. No driveway, or portion thereof, shall have a slope exceeding
20%. No driveway, or portion thereof, shall have a dip, hump, or other surface irregularity which
has an angle of approach or departure exceeding ten percent, nor shall any driveway, or portion
thereof, be designed or constructed so as to interfere with the passage of fire protection apparatus
having wheelbase of not less than 244 inches and ground clearance of not more than 11 inches,
subject, however, to the provisions of Subsection ( C) below with respect to driveways entering
onto a public right-of-way.
C. Sight distance.
1. A driveway rising up to a public right-of-way shall have a transition section
not less than 16 feet in length with a slope not exceeding five percent, ending at the property line
or ultimate street line if established by general or specific plan), to prevent the hood of the vehicle
from obscuring the driver's view of pedestrians and vehicles as illustrated in Figure I.
FIGURE 1
16. 57 (9) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
PROPERTY LINE
PUBLIC R[GI37 OF- WAY MAXrML3M SLOPE S fo
DRIVEWAY RAMP
i6 Mzr_
TR MSMON SLOPE
2. Fences, walls or cut banks which exceed a height of two feet shall not be
permitted within a distance of six feet of the point of intersection of the edge of the driveway and
the property line ( or ultimate street line if established by general or specific plan), as illustrated in
Figure II.
FIGURE II
PROPERTY OR STREET LIKE
r
r'
NO SOLID OBSTRUCTION OVER 2'
PF-RMITTED FN THIS TPJANGLE
DRIVEWAY
CURB, FENCE OR WALL. UNTE
D. Paving standards. The design and construction of all parking areas, including
access and driveways thereto, serving residential developments and all commercial or industrial
facilities, or any other facility held open for public use, shall be paved. Said paving standards
shall be based upon a traffic index ( T. I.) of 4.5 and the applicable " R" value of the soil( s) at the
project site as determined by a registered soils engineer. Specific modification( s) of this standard
may be made or approved by the Director of Public Works where sound engineering practices
may justify such modification( s).
This standard shall be applicable to all new projects and existing parking areas subject to
resurfacing or repair of the parking area surface (where the original surface has broken up or is
subject to removal and replacement).
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07; Ord. No. 2012- 7, Amended,
5/ 22/ 12)
16. 57 ( 10) Vista 10/ 24/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16. 60
Residential Development Limitations and Requirements
Sections:
16. 60.010 Declaration of Intent
16. 60.020 Voter Approval of Amendments Required
16. 60.030 Adoption of Community Facilities Element
16. 60.040 Adoption of Design Review Guidelines
16. 60.050 Residential Development Limitation
16. 60.060 Largest Number of Votes Prevail
16. 60.070 Judicial Review
16. 60.080 Modification
Section 16. 60.010 Declaration of Intent
Prior Code 31 A- 1: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.020 Voter Approval of Amendments Required
Prior Code 31 A-2: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.030 Adoption of Community Facilities Element
Prior Code 31 A-3: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.040 Adoption of Design Review Guidelines
Prior Code 31 A-4: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.050 Residential Development Limitation
Prior Code 31 A-5: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.060 Largest Number of Votes Prevail
Prior Code 31A-6: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.070 Judicial Review
Prior Code 31 A-7: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
Section 16. 60.080 Modification
Prior Code 31 A-8: Ord. 87- 4, Expired 12/ 31/ 1999)
16. 60 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 16.64
Violation - Penalties
Sections:
16. 64.010 Violation - Penalty
Section 16.64.010 Violation - Penalty
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this title or any of the
codes adopted by reference by any chapter of this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation of any such provisions as so adopted is committed,
continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such violations, such person shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $ 1, 000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months,
or both such fine and imprisonment.
Prior Code 6- 8; Ord. No. 91- 1, Amended, 02/ 12/ 91)
16. 64 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 04
Definitions
Sections:
17. 04.010 Generally
17. 04.020 Bicycle
17. 04.030 Bicycle Trail
17. 04.040 Cable Television Lines
17. 04.050 Certificate of Compliance
17. 04.060 City Standard Specifications
17. 04.070 Conditional Certificate of Compliance
17. 04.080 Design
17. 04.090 Final Map
17. 04. 100 Improvement
17. 04. 110 Lot
17. 04. 120 Lot Area
17. 04. 130 Lot, Corner
17. 04. 140 Lot, Interior
17. 04. 150 Lot, Through
17. 04. 160 Major Subdivisions
17. 04. 170 Minor Subdivisions
17. 04. 180 Notice of Violation
17. 04. 190 Parcel Map
17. 04.200 Remainder Parcel
17. 04.210 Street
17. 04.220 Subdivider
17. 04.230 Subdivision
17. 04.240 Subdivision Map Act
17. 04.250 Tentative Map
17. 04.260 Tentative Parcel Map
Section 17. 04.010 Generally
Words used in this title that are defined in the Subdivision Map Act, but not specifically
defined in this chapter have the same meaning as is given to them in the Subdivision Map Act.
Whenever the following words are used in this title, they have the meaning ascribed to them in
this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 1)
Section 17. 04.020 Bicycle
Bicycle" means a device upon which any person may ride, propelled by human power
through a belt, chain or gears, and having either two or three wheels in a tandem or tricycle
arrangement.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 5)
Section 17. 04.030 Bicycle Trail
Bicycle trail" means the generic term for all facilities that explicitly provide for bicycle
travel by a course which is to be traveled.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 10)
17. 04 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 04.040 Cable Television Lines
Cable television lines" means electronic cable, conduit and any other appurtenances
thereto, which distribute television signals.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 15)
Section 17. 04.050 Certificate of Compliance
Certificate of compliance" means a document describing a unit or contiguous units of
real property and stating that the division thereof complies with applicable provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 20)
Section 17. 04.060 City Standard Specifications
City standard specifications" or " City specifications" means the latest edition of
those standard specifications entitled " Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction,"
written and promulgated by the Southern California Chapter of the American Public Works
Association and the Southern California District of the Associated General Contractors of
California, together with any addenda proposed by the San Diego County Regional Standards
Committees and approved by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 25)
Section 17. 04.070 Conditional Certificate of Compliance
Conditional certificate of compliance" means a document describing a unit or
contiguous units of real property and stating that the fulfillment and implementation of the
conditions set forth therein are required prior to subsequent issuance of a building or grading
permit applicable thereto.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 27)
Section 17. 04.080 Design
Design" means:
A. Street alignments, grades and widths;
B. Drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities, including alignments and grades
thereof;
C. Location and size of all required easements and rights- of-way;
D. Fire roads and firebreaks;
E. Lot size and configuration;
F. Traffic access;
G. Grading;
H. Land to be dedicated for park or recreational purposes; and
I. Such other specific requirements in the plan and configuration of the entire
subdivision as may be necessary or convenient to insure conformity to or implementation of the
general plan required by Article 5 ( commencing with Section 65300) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of
Title 7 of the Government Code, or any specific plan adopted pursuant to Article 8 ( commencing
with Section 65450) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 30)
17. 04 (2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 04.090 Final Map
Final map" means a map prepared pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 3, Division 2 of Title
7 of the Government Code for those subdivisions as required by Section 17. 68.080 of this code.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 1. 35)
Section 17. 04. 100 Improvement
Improvement" means:
A. Such street work and utilities including street lights and walkways to be installed or
agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets, highways,
ways and easements as are necessary for the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and
local neighborhood traffic, drainage, flood control, fire protection and sanitation needs as a
condition precedent to the approval of a parcel map or final map;
B. Such other specific improvements or types of improvements, the installation of
which, either by the subdivider, by public agencies, by private utilities, by any other entity
approved by the City, or by a combination thereof, is necessary or convenient to insure conformity
to or implementation of the General Plan required by Article 5 ( commencing with Section 65300)
of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, or any specific plan adopted
pursuant to Article 8 ( commencing with Section 65450) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the
Government Code.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 40)
Section 17. 04. 110 Lot
Lot" means lot, parcel or tract of real property.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 45)
Section 17. 04. 120 Lot area
Lot area" means the horizontal area within the boundary lines of a lot exclusive of:
A. The area of any street right-of-way or road easement;
B. Any flood control easement or walkway which, as a condition of approval of the
subdivision map on which the lot is shown, must be fenced; and
C. Any portion of the lot which is less than 30 feet wide for a distance of 50 feet or
more and which is designed or used to provide vehicular or pedestrian access to the part of such
lot which is designed for use as a building site.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 50)
Section 17. 04.130 Lot, Corner
Corner lot" means a lot which lies at the intersection of two streets.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 55)
Section 17. 04.140 Lot, Interior
Interior lot" means a lot which has side lot lines, which if extended in either direction will
intersect at an angle of not more than 45 degrees, and has frontage on only one street.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 60)
17. 04 (3) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 04.150 Lot, Through
Through lot" means a lot having frontage on two streets which, if extended in either
direction will intersect at an angle of not more than 45 degrees.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 65)
Section 17. 04. 160 Major Subdivisions
Major subdivision" means any subdivision which is not a minor subdivision.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 70)
Section 17. 04.170 Minor Subdivisions
Minor subdivision" means the following subdivisions:
A. Subdivision creating four or fewer lots or parcels;
B. Movement of lot or parcel lines;
C. Conversion of commercial or industrial, buildings from single to condominium
ownership of any type;
D. The land before division contains less than five acres, each parcel created by the
division abuts upon a maintained public street or highway and no dedications or improvements
are required by the legislative body;
E. Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of 20 acres or more and has
an approved access to a maintained public street or highway; or
F. The land consists of a parcel or parcels of land having approved access to a public
street or highway which comprises part of a tract of land zoned for industrial or commercial
development, and which has the approval of the governing body as to street alignments and
widths; or
G. Each parcel created by the division has a gross area of not less than 40 acres or is
not less than a quarter of a quarter section; or
H. The creation of a one lot subdivision in conjunction with a condominium housing
permit.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 75)
Section 17. 04. 180 Notice of Violation
Notice of violation" means a document describing contiguous units of real property,
naming the owners thereof, and describing the manner in which such real property has been
divided, or has resulted from a division, in violation of the Subdivision Map Act and City
ordinances enacted pursuant thereto.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 80)
Section 17. 04. 190 Parcel Map
Parcel map" means a map prepared pursuant to Article 3 ( commencing with Section
66444), Chapter 2, Division 2, Title 7, of the Government Code ( Subdivision Map Act).
Prior code 28. 1. 1. 85)
Section 17. 04.200 Remainder Parcel
Remainder parcel" means that portion of any legal lot being subdivided which is not
being divided for the purpose of sale, lease or financing, and is designated as such on the final, or
parcel map and on the tentative map.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 92)
17. 04 (4) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 04.210 Street
Street" means a state highway, county road or street, public road, street, alley or
thoroughfare or private road, street, alley, thoroughfare or easement for ingress and egress.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 95)
Section 17. 04.220 Subdivider
Subdivider" means a person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association who proposes
to divide, divides or causes to be divided real property into a subdivision for himself or for others
except that employees and consultants of such persons or entities, acting in such capacity, are
not "subdividers."
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 100)
Section 17. 04.230 Subdivision
Subdivision" means the division of any improved or unimproved land shown on the
latest equalized county assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the purpose of sale,
lease or financing, whether immediate or future except for leases of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes. Property shall be considered as contiguous units, even if it is separated by
roads, streets, utility easements, or railroad rights- of-way. " Subdivision" includes a condominium
project, as defined in Section 1350 of the Civil Code or a community apartment project, as defined
in Section 11004 of the Business and Professions Code. Any conveyance of land to a
governmental agency, public entity or public utility shall not be considered a division of land for
any purpose. As used in this section, " agricultural purpose" means the cultivation of food or fiber
or the grazing or pasturing of livestock.
Prior Code 28. 1. 1. 105)
Section 17. 04.240 Subdivision Map Act
Subdivision Map Act" means the Subdivision Map Act as set forth in Division 2 of Title 7
of the Government Code of the State of California.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 110)
Section 17. 04.250 Tentative Map
Tentative map" means a map prepared for the purpose of showing the design and
improvement of a proposed major subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it, filed
with the Planning Commission precedent to the preparation and filing of a final map, which may
but need not be based upon an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 120)
Section 17. 04.260 Tentative Parcel Map
Tentative parcel map" means a map prepared for the purpose of showing the design
and improvement of a proposed minor subdivision and the existing conditions in and around it,
filed with the Director of Planning precedent to the preparation and filing of a parcel map, which
may but need not be based upon an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 120)
17. 04 (5) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 08
General Provisions
Sections:
17. 08. 010 Title
17. 08. 020 Prohibition
17. 08. 030 Application of Subdivision Map Act
17. 08. 040 Extent of Regulations
17. 08. 050 Area to be Subdivided
17. 08. 060 Illegal Parcels
17. 08. 070 Advisory Agency Designation
17. 08. 080 Environmental Impact Review
17. 08. 090 Security for the Payment of Taxes and Special Assessments - Release
17. 08. 100 Corrections and Amendments
17. 08. 110 Amending Map
17. 08. 120 Authorization to Act
17. 08. 130 Fees - Establishment
17. 08. 140 Streets and Lots Reserved for Future Streets Excluded from
Computation
17. 08. 150 Prohibitions
17. 08. 160 Exemption from Merger Provisions
17. 08. 170 Voidability of Deeds, Contracts
17. 08. 180 Conflict - Filed Maps
17. 08. 190 Covenants for Easements
Section 17. 08. 010 Title
This title is known as the " Subdivision Ordinance" and may be cited as such.
Prior Code 28- 1. 1. 0)
Section 17. 08. 020 Prohibition
No person shall create a subdivision except in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and this title.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 1)
Section 17. 08. 030 Application of Subdivision Map Act
A. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this title all of the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act which apply to subdivisions as defined in that act, and all of the provisions
of this title apply to subdivisions as defined in this title.
B. This title shall be inapplicable to:
1. The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space
within duplexes, multiple dwellings, apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial
buildings, mobile home parks or trailer parks;
2. Mineral, oil or gas leases;
3. Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety Code
of the State of California;
4. Financing or leasing of any parcel of land or any portion thereof in
conjunction with the construction of commercial or industrial buildings on a single parcel, unless
17. 08 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
the financing or leasing was not approved as part of the normal site development plan review.
5. The financing or leasing of existing separate commercial or industrial
buildings on a single parcel.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 2)
Section 17. 08.040 Extent of Regulations
No real property, improved or unimproved, consisting of a single unit or two or more contiguous
units and owned by the same person or persons shall be divided into two or more lots, including
any lot retained by the owner, except in accordance with the provisions of this title.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 3)
Section 17. 08.050 Area to be Subdivided
All subdivisions shall include all portions of the legally created lot or lots of which they are a part,
except as provided in Section 17. 08. 060.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 4)
Section 17.08.060 Illegal Parcels
No parcel may be subdivided if it was illegally created, unless, as part of the division,
compliance with all provisions of law is obtained. If such compliance is not possible, a notice of
violation with respect to the parcel shall be recorded. In no event shall a subdivision be
permitted unless the entire legal parcel is subdivided when the owner of any portion of the illegal
parcel is the person who owned the property at the time of the illegal subdivision.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 5)
Section 17. 08.070 Advisory Agency Designation
A. Major Subdivisions. The Planning Commission is designated as the advisory
agency as that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act, for major subdivisions and shall have
the authority to perform the actions as set forth in Section 17. 12. 070 of this code. The Director
of Planning may prescribe, subject to' the approval of the City Council, such rules and
regulations as are necessary or advisable with respect to the form and content of tentative maps
required by the Subdivision Map Act or this title and the data to be furnished with such tentative
maps.
B. Minor Subdivisions. The Director of Planning is designated as the advisory
agency as that term is used in the Subdivision Map Act, for minor subdivisions and shall have
the authority to perform the actions as set forth in Sections 17. 76. 100 through 17. 76. 150 of this
code. The Director of Planning may prescribe, subject to the approval of the City Council, such
rules and regulations as are necessary or advisable with respect to the form and content of
tentative parcel maps required by this title. The Director of Planning may also, subject to the
approval of the City Council, prescribe rules and regulations as to the form and content of parcel
maps for boundary adjustment purposes and data to be filed therewith.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 6)
Section 17. 08.080 Environmental Impact Review
All tentative maps and tentative parcel maps shall be subject to environmental review in
accordance with rules and procedures adopted by the City Council pursuant to the
Environmental Quality Act of 1970 of " CEQA" ( Division 13 of the Public Resources Code).
17. 08 (2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Consequently, decisions to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove any tentative map or
tentative parcel map shall be subject to the following:
A. Tentative Maps.
1. Negative Declaration. Upon receipt of a negative declaration with respect
to any tentative map, the Planning Commission may proceed to consider the tentative map
without an environmental impact report;
2. Environmental Impact Report. With respect to any tentative map for which
an environmental impact report is required, the Planning Commission shall consider such report
as independent evidence in determining whether to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the tentative map. In addition to any other discretion granted by law, the Planning
Commission shall have the authority to consider the adequacy of the environmental impact
report and refer it back to the environmental review committee for preparation of a
supplementary report, in any case in which it deems a supplementary report to be necessary as
a basis for a decision on the tentative map. In cases where a proposal has changed
substantially since the time of initial review, such commission or committee may require a
supplementary environmental impact report.
B. Tentative Parcel Maps.
1. Negative Declaration. Upon receipt of a negative declaration with respect
to any tentative parcel map, the Director of Planning may proceed to consider the tentative
parcel map without an environmental impact report;
2. Environmental Impact Report. With respect to any tentative parcel map
for which an environmental impact report is required, the Director of Planning shall consider
such report as independent evidence in determining whether to approve, conditionally approve,
or disapprove the tentative parcel map. In addition to any other discretion granted by law, the
Director of Planning shall have the authority to consider the adequacy of the environmental
impact report and refer it back to the environmental review committee for preparation of a
supplementary report in any case in which a supplementary report is deemed to be necessary
as a basis for a decision on the tentative parcel map. In cases where a proposal has changed
substantially since the time of initial review, the Director of Planning or the committee may
require a supplementary environmental impact report.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 7)
Section 17. 08.090 Security for the Payment of Taxes and Special Assessments -
Release
Whenever security is filed with the board of supervisors or the clerk thereof pursuant to
Section 66493 of the Government Code to secure the payment of taxes or special assessments
collected as taxes which are a lien on the property to be subdivided but not yet payable, the
clerk of the board of supervisors, upon notification by the tax collector that the total amount of
such taxes or special assessments have been paid in full, may release such security.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 8)
Section 17. 08. 100 Corrections and Amendments.
Corrections and amendments to final and parcel maps may be accomplished as set forth
in Sections 66469 through 66472 of the Subdivision Map Act to the extent provided for therein.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 9)
Section 17. 08. 110 Amending Map
Any change in any lot line, parcel line or subdivision boundary line may only be
accomplished by recording an approved parcel map for boundary adjustment purposes.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 10)
17. 08 (3) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.08. 120 Authorization to Act
Either the Director of Planning or City Engineer may authorize any subordinate person
under his authority to perform any function assigned to him by this title.
Prior Code 28- 1. 2. 11)
Section 17.08. 130 Fees - Establishment
The City Council may by resolution or ordinance enact fees for actions set forth in this
title.
Prior Code 28- 2. 1)
Section 17. 08. 140 Streets and Lots Reserved for Future Streets Excluded from
Computation
Streets and lots reserved for future streets shall be disregarded in computing the fees
and charges imposed by this title.
Prior Code 28- 2. 9)
Section 17. 08. 150 Prohibitions
No person shall sell, lease or finance or offer to sell, lease or finance, nor build on or
grade on, any lot unless a final map or parcel map relating thereto is filed or waived pursuant to
this title or unless said lot was created pursuant to a predecessor of this title, or unless said lot
is a lot as defined in Section 18. 02.385 of this code.
Prior Code 28- 11. 1)
Section 17.08. 160 Exemption from Merger Provisions
Any lots created pursuant to this title or any predecessor, or which are lots as defined in
Section 18. 02. 250 of this code, are specifically exempted from the merger provisions of Section
66424. 2 of the Government Code, notwithstanding the fact that they might otherwise merge
pursuant to such provisions.
Prior Code 28- 1 1. 1. 1)
Section 17. 08. 170 Voidability of Deeds, Contracts
A. Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell real property which has been
divided, or which has resulted from a division in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision
Map Act or City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto is voidable at the sole option of the
grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, his heirs, personal representative or trustee in
insolvency or bankruptcy within one year after the date of discovery of such violation, but the
deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any successor in interest of the
grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other than those above enumerated, and
upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to sell, or his assignee, heir or devisee.
B. Any grantee, or his successor in interest, or real property which has been
divided, or which has resulted from a division, in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision
Map Act or City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, may, within one year of the date of
discovery of such violation, bring an action in the superior court to recover any damages he has
suffered by reason of such division of property. The action may be brought against the person
who divided the property in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or City
17. 08 (4) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
ordinances enacted pursuant thereto and against any successors in interest who have actual or
constructive knowledge of such division of property.
C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the conveyance of any parcel of
real property identified in a certificate of compliance filed pursuant to this title or identified in a
recorded final subdivision map or parcel map from and after the date of recording.
D. The provisions of this section shall not limit or affect in any way the rights of a
grantee or his successor in interest under any other provision of law.
Prior Code 28- 1 1. 7)
Section 17. 08. 180 Conflict - Filed Maps
To the extent it is not in conflict with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act as defined
in this title, any map which has been filed prior to March 1, 1975, shall be processed under the law
which applied to it at the time of such filing.
Prior Code 28- 12. 3)
Section 17. 08. 190 Covenants for Easements
A. Whenever under the provisions of Titles 16, 17 and 18 of this Code an easement is
necessary or required for parking, ingress, egress, emergency access, light and air access,
landscaping or open space purposes, the easement may be created by a covenant pursuant to
this section.
B. At the time of recording the covenant of easement, all property benefited or
burdened by the covenant shall be in common ownership. The covenant shall be effective when
recorded and shall act as an easement pursuant to Chapter 3 ( commencing with Section 801) of
Title 2 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the Civil Code, except that it shall not merge into any other interest
in real property. Section 1104 of the Civil Code shall be applicable to conveyance of the affected
real property. The covenant of easement shall describe the real property subject to the easement
and the real property benefited by the easement. The covenant of easement shall also identify
the approval permit or designation granted upon which covenant was required.
C. A covenant of easement shall be enforceable by the City, by the owner of the real
property benefited by the covenant, and by the successors in interest to the real property
benefited by the covenant. The covenant of easement shall be recorded in the Office of the
County Recorder. The burdens of the covenant shall be binding upon and the benefits of the
covenant shall insure to all successors in interest to the real property.
D. The covenant of easement may be released upon the application of any person
after a public hearing by the Planning Commission.
E. Notice of the public hearing shall be mailed or delivered to all persons, including
businesses, corporations, or other public or private entities shown on the last equalized
assessment roll as owning real property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
properties affected by the covenant at their addresses as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll, and by publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation published and
circulated in the City, and by posting such notice in three conspicuous places, either on the
properties affected by the covenant which is the subject of the proposed hearing, or in the public
street adjacent to such properties and not more than 50 feet away from the exterior boundaries of
the property. In addition to any other notice provided herein, the City shall give notice in
accordance with Section 18. 04.060D of this Code.
F. The Planning Commission may authorize the Planning Director to record a release
of the covenant if it determines that the restriction of the property is no longer necessary to
achieve the land use goals of the City. An application for release of covenant shall be
accompanied by a fee in an amount designated by City Council resolution. A request for release
17. 08 (5) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
of a covenant of easement may be consolidated with any other application for discretionary
approval under this Code.
G. This section is adopted pursuant to Article 2. 7 ( commencing with Section 65870) of
Chapter 4 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.
Ord. No. 2002- 11, Added, 3/ 12/ 02)
17. 08 (6) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 12
Tentative Maps
Sections:
17. 12. 010 Required
17. 12. 020 Conformance with Rules of Director of Planning
17. 12. 030 Public Hearings Required
17. 12. 040 Additional Requirements
17. 12. 050 Grading Plan
17. 12. 060 Soils Report
17. 12. 070 Planning Commission Duties
17. 12. 080 Findings Regarding Tentative Map
17. 12. 090 Modification of Regulations
17. 12. 100 Flagging
17. 12. 110 Appeal to City Council  Subdivider or Tenant
17. 12. 120 Appeal
17. 12. 130 Expiration of Tentative Map Extension of Time
17. 12. 140 Revised Tentative Map
17. 12. 150 Waiver of Tentative and Final Map
Section 17. 12. 010 Required.
A. Any person proposing to create a major subdivision shall file a tentative map
pursuant to this chapter. The City Council shall not approve a final map unless prior thereto a
tentative map of the subdivision shown thereon has been filed with and reported on by the
Planning Commission.
B. If a parcel map is authorized for a major subdivision pursuant to the Subdivision
Map Act or this title, the City Engineer shall not approve such map unless prior thereto a
tentative map of the subdivision shown thereon has been filed with and reported on by the
Planning Commission.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 1)
Section 17. 12. 020 Conformance with Rules of Director of Planning
All tentative maps shall be in the form and shall contain and shall be accompanied by
the date specified by the rules and regulations approved by the Director of Planning, and shall
be accompanied by the appropriate environmental document prepared in accordance with the
rules and procedures adopted by the City Council.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 2)
Section 17. 12.030 Public Hearings Required
Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall not
make recommendations on, nor shall the City Council approve or deny, a tentative map, revised
tentative map, or modifications to a tentative map, except as provided in Section 17. 12. 070 A,
until a public hearing is held before the body taking action, notice of which is given pursuant to
Section 17. 12. 070 A.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 2. 1)
17. 12 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 12. 040 Additional Requirements
In addition to those items required by Section 17. 12. 020 the following shall also be
required as applicable on any tentative map or tentative parcel map:
A. At the time of filing a tentative map for subdivision to be created from the
conversion of a mobile home park to another use, the subdivider shall also file a report on the
impact of the conversion upon the displaced residents of the mobile home park to be converted.
In determining the impact of conversion upon the displaced mobile home park residents, the
report shall address the availability of adequate replacement space in mobile home parks.
Subdividers shall make a copy of the report available to each resident of the mobile home park
with a minimum of 30 days prior to the submittal of the tentative map to the City. Proof of such
submittal, in the form of a signed receipt, or proof of service by mail, shall be submitted with
such tentative map.
B. At the submittal of a tentative map for the conversion of any apartment unit into
condominiums the applicant shall submit with such tentative map proof that each tenant has
been notified of such submittal a minimum of 60 days prior to the submittal of the tentative map.
Such proof shall be in the form of a signed statement by each tenant or proof of service by mail.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 2. 2)
Section 17. 12. 050 Grading Plan
There shall be filed with each tentative map a grading plan showing any grading
proposed for the creation of building sites within the subdivision or for construction or installation
of improvements to serve the subdivision. In the event no such grading is proposed, a statement
to that effect shall be filed with the tentative map.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 3)
Section 17. 12.060 Soils Report
A. A preliminary soils report prepared by a registered civil engineer and based upon
adequate test borings shall be submitted to the City Engineer for every subdivision with respect
to the subdivision lots and adjoining roads.
B. A preliminary soils report may be waived by the City Engineer providing the City
Engineer finds that due to knowledge the City has as to the soils qualities of the soils in the
subdivision, no preliminary analysis is necessary.
C. If the City has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils reports indicates, the
presence of critically expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not corrected, would lead
to structural defects, a soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required by the
City Engineer. Such soils investigation shall be done by a registered civil engineer, who shall
recommend the corrective action which is likely to prevent structural damage to each structure
proposed to be constructed in the area where such soils problems exists.
D. The advisory agency may approve the subdivision or portion thereof where such
soils problem exists if it determines that the recommended action is likely to prevent structural
damage to each structure to be constructed and a condition to the issuance of any building
permit may require that the approved recommended action be incorporated in the construction
of each structure.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 4)
Section 17. 12. 070 Planning Commission Duties
The Planning Commission is authorized and directed to carry out the following actions:
17. 12 ( 2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. Give notice of any public hearing held pursuant to this chapter in the same
manner as required by Subsections A, C and D of Section 18. 04.060. However, in no case,
except for appeals, shall a public hearing be held where the question to be decided is a request
for an extension of time for filing a final map, or a modification to a previously approved
resolution of conditional approval not affecting any design or improvement. In addition, no
separate hearing need be held for any map if the map is part of a project for which a public
hearing is required and said hearing requires notification equivalent to that required by this
section. Notification shall also be made to each tenant in an apartment complex or mobile home
park for which a condominium conversion is requested.
B. Investigate each tentative map filed with it pursuant to this chapter and the
Subdivision Map Act, and the improvements proposed to be constructed or installed, to serve
the subdivision; and make its report with respect to the design and improvements of the
subdivision, including, but not limited to, the type, nature and extent of the proposed
improvements.
C. Within ten days after the filing of a tentative map, the Secretary of the Planning
Commission shall send notice of such ( including information about the location, number of
dwelling units, density and any other pertinent information) to the governing board of any school
district(s) within which the proposed subdivision is located. The governing board( s) must reply to
such notice ( in writing) within 20 working days of the posting date of such notice, indicating the
impact(s) of the proposed subdivision on their jurisdiction( s). Should no reply be received within
the specified time, it shall be assumed the subdivision will have no impact on their facilities, and
they have given it their approval.
D. Obtain the recommendations of:
1. The City Engineer, Director of Health Services of the County of San
Diego, Director of Sanitation and Flood Control of the County of San Diego, Director of
Planning, the City Parks and Recreation Commission, the Vista Irrigation District and the San
Diego Gas and Electric Company, or their authorized representatives, with respect to the design
of the proposed subdivision and the type, nature and extent of the proposed improvements;
2. The Chief of the City Fire Department, with respect to appropriate fire
flow, fire hydrants and connections to be installed; and
3. Such other agencies as may be required by the Planning Commission or
the Secretary thereof.
E. Within 30 days of the filing of a tentative map, and after a duly noticed public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall, by resolution, approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the tentative map. The action of the Planning Commission shall be reported to the
City Council and the applicant, and shall be final unless appealed pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 17. 12. 110 or 17. 12. 120. The report of the Planning Commission shall include findings
and action on the findings as required by the Subdivision Map Act.
F. A copy of the action on any tentative map submitted to the Planning Commission
shall be submitted to the subdivider; and in the case of a mobile home park conversion or
apartment conversion, to each tenant thereof, a minimum of three business days prior to the
consideration by the Planning Commission. Submittals shall be accomplished by mailing a copy
of said recommendations by first class mail.
G. If the Planning Commission approves or conditionally approves a tentative map,
it shall prescribe, pursuant to the provisions of this title, the type, nature and extent of the
improvements to be constructed or installed to serve the subdivision for which such tentative
map is filed. However, if the Planning Commission does not prescribe the type, nature or extent
of the improvements to be constructed or installed, improvements shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with City specifications.
H. When considering any subdivision map which converts mobile home parks to
other uses or which converts apartments to condominiums, the Planning Commission shall
17. 12 ( 3) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
consider the report required by Section 17. 12. 020, and shall ensure that each tenant is given
ample opportunity to testify in regards to apartment or mobile home conversions. As a minimum,
the Planning Commission shall impose conditions to mitigate any adverse impact of the
conversion on the ability of the displaced mobile home park residents or apartment residents to
find an adequate place in another mobile home park or apartment, if applicable. In considering
such mitigating measures for apartment conversion, the standards of the condominium housing
ordinance shall apply. In considering mitigating measures with regard to the mobile home park
conversion, the Planning Commission shall, in addition to applying any applicable standards,
minimize impact as much as possible for such residents.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 5)
Section 17. 12. 080 Findings Regarding Tentative Map
A. The City Council shall find that the proposed subdivision, together with the
provisions for its design and improvement, is consistent with any General Plan required by
Article 5 of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, or with any specific plan
adopted pursuant to Article 8 of said chapter, division and title, or it shall disapprove the
tentative map.
B. The City Council shall disapprove the tentative map for failure to meet or perform
any of the requirements or conditions imposed by the Subdivision Map Act or City ordinances
enacted pursuant thereto, and such disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding identifying
the requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed, provided that it may
waive any failure of the map to meet such requirements and conditions if such failure is a result
of a technical and inadvertent error, which in the determination of the City Council, does not
materially affect the validity of the map.
C. The City Council shall not approve the tentative map if it makes any of the
following findings:
1. That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and
specific plans;
2. That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with the applicable general and specific plans;
3. That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development;
4. That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
5. That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or
wildlife or their habitat;
6. That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is likely to
cause serious public health problems;
7. That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will conflict
with easements of record or easements established by court judgment, acquired by the public at
large, for access through or use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection,
the City Council may approve a map if it finds that alternate easements, for access or for use,
will be provided, and that these will be substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by
the public;
8. That all requirements of CEQA have not been met;
9. Each of the tenants of a proposed condominium community, apartment,
or stock cooperative project have not received written notification of intention to convert at least
60 days prior to filing of the tentative map; further the Council shall find that each such tenant
and each person applying for a rental unit of such residential property has received all
applicable notices and rights hereafter required by this title and the Subdivision Map Act
17. 12 ( 4) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
applicable at the time of approval of the tentative map. Findings shall be made that each tenant
will receive ten days written notification that an application for a public report will be submitted to
the department of real estate and that report will be made available upon request to the tenant
at the time of such notification. The Director of Planning shall receive proof of such notification
in the form of a signed receipt from each tenant or proof of service by mail.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 8)
Section 17. 12. 090 Modification of Regulations
Whenever the City Council finds that the real property to be divided is of such size or
shape or is subject to such title limitations of record or is affected by such topographical location
or conditions, or is to be devoted to such usage, that it is impossible or impractical in the
particular case for the subdivider to conform fully to the requirements of this title, the City
Council may waive or modify such requirements as it deems reasonably necessary; provided,
however, any such waiver or modification shall be in conformity with the spirit and purpose of
the Subdivision Map Act and of this title. The City Council may waive or modify such
requirements upon such reasonable conditions as it deems appropriate.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 9)
Section 17. 12.100 Flagging
After filing of the tentative map and prior to approval of the tentative map, the Director of
Planning may require the subdivision to be flagged by the subdivider. Said flagging shall consist
of flags at all lot or subdivision corners, centerlines of streets and at such other points as may
reasonably be required by the Director of Planning.
Prior Code 28- 3. 1. 10)
Section 17. 12.110 Appeal to City Council - Subdivider or Tenant
If any subdivider, staff, or, in the case of a conversion of a mobile home park or
apartment complex, any tenant, is dissatisfied with any action of the Planning Commission with
regard to a tentative map, he may appeal such action to the City Council. Notice of any such
hearing by the City Council on any appeal shall be given in the manner as provided for by
Section 17. 12. 070 A.
Prior Code 28- 3. 2. 1)
Section 17. 12.120 Appeal
Any interested person adversely affected by any action of the Planning Commission with
respect to a tentative map may file an appeal pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code 28- 3. 2. 2; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 17. 12. 130 Expiration of Tentative Map - Extension of Time
Within 36 months after the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map, the
subdivider shall cause the subdivision, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a final map to be
prepared in accordance with the tentative map as approved or conditionally approved and in
accordance with the Subdivision Map Act and this title; provided, however, that if within 90 days
prior to the expiration of said 36 months, the City Planner, may at any time within 90 days prior
to the expiration of said 36 months grant an extension. In the event the City Planner denies a
subdivision application for extension, the subdivider may appeal, pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150
17. 12 ( 5) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
of the Development Code. The City Planner shall be designated the advisory agency with
regard to major subdivisions extensions.
An extension shall not be granted or conditionally granted unless the City Planner finds
that the design and improvements of the subdivision are consistent with the General Plan, any
applicable specific plan, Titles 17 and 18 of this code, and any public facility or development
management policies in existence at the time the extension is approved. In granting an
extension the City Planner may impose new conditions and may revise existing conditions. An
extension shall be for a period of not more than two years unless the City Planner finds that an
extension for a longer period is warranted, giving consideration to the scope of the project, the
previous expenditures made by the subdivider in furtherance of the subdivision, and the effect of
the extension of the development on the community. The total period of all extensions shall not
exceed five years.
If a subdivider is authorized to file multiple final maps pursuant to section 17. 68.030 and
the subdivider is required to expend funds for outside public improvements equal to the
threshold amount described in Government Code section 66452.6, extensions of the tentative
map shall occur for the time limits contained in that statute.
Prior Code 28- 3. 3. 1; Ord. 97-4, Amended, 01/ 28/ 97)
Section 17. 12. 140 Revised Tentative Map
If a subdivider desires to revise or alter a proposed subdivision for which a tentative map
has been approved by the City Council, the subdivider may file with the Planning Commission a
revised tentative map on payment of the fees prescribed in Sections 17. 08. 130 and 17. 08. 140
of this code.
A. A revised tentative map shall conform to the following requirements:
1. The proposed subdivision shown on such map shall generally conform to
the street and lot pattern shown on the approved tentative map;
2. The proposed subdivision shown on such map shall include only one
contiguous area consisting of all or a portion of the subdivision shown on the approved tentative
map together with such additional land, if any, as the subdivider desires to include;
3. The map shall contain all of the information required on tentative maps
and shall be accompanied by such data as is required to be filed with tentative maps.
B. A revised tentative map may be filed within 18 months after the approval of the
tentative map by the City Council or, if an extension of time is granted, within the period
specified.
C. Upon the filing of a revised tentative map and payment of the prescribed fee,
such revised tentative map shall be treated in all respects as an original tentative map and shall
be reported on, approved, conditionally approved or disapproved in the same manner as a
tentative map; provided, however, that the subdivider has 18 months from the approval or
conditional approval of the original tentative map within which to record a final map, which 18
month period may be extended by the Planning Commission or on appeal the City Council, such
extension not to exceed two years, pursuant to Section 17. 12. 130.
D. Nothing in this section shall be construed as a limitation on the power of the City
Council or Planning Commission to approve alterations of a tentative map approved by such
council or commission or to modify conditions imposed as a part of the approval of a tentative
map.
Prior Code 28- 3. 3. 2)
17. 12 ( 6) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 12. 150 Waiver of Tentative and Final Map
The City Council by majority vote may waive a tentative and final map for the conversion
to a one- lot stock cooperative of an apartment building or buildings or mobile home park or
parks subject to the procedure and findings set forth in Section 18. 60. 040 F of this code.
Prior Code 28- 3. 4. 1)
17. 12 ( 7) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 16
General Design Requirements
Sections:
17. 16. 010 Design of Subdivision
17. 16. 020 Private Street Access
17. 16. 030 Private Street Access  Not Applicable to Certain Lot
17. 16. 040 Private Access for Commercial or Industrial Subdivision
17. 16. 050 Mobile Home Park Access
Section 17. 16.010 Design of Subdivision
All major subdivisions shall conform to the following requirements as to design:
A. No lot shall include land in more than a single tax code area.
B. Every lot shall contain the minimum lot area specified in the zoning ordinance for
the zone in which such lot is located at the time the final map or parcel map is filed; provided,
however, if no lot area is established by the provisions of Title 18 of this code, including the
specific requirement that no minimum area is required, every lot shall contain a net area of no less
than 7,500 square feet.
C. Every lot shall be at least 50 feet wide exclusive of side yards required in the zone
in which the lot is located measured at the building setback line.
D. Lots whose side lines are approximately radial to the center of a cul- de-sac or the
center of the intersection of two dead- end streets shall have at least 45 feet of frontage measured
at the building setback line.
E. Panhandle or flag- shaped lots shall be permitted where it can be shown that the
use of such lot design is sensitive to topography and results in preferred geometric shape of lots;
is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare; does not create excessive vehicular
traffic loads; reduces the requirement for public streets and other public utility distribution lines.
Panhandle lots in multi- family, commercial or industrial zones shall not be permitted unless a
modification is granted with the finding that the flag lot created has sufficient traversable width for
two-way traffic pursuant to Chapter 16. 57.
F. Panhandle- shaped or flag- shaped lots, if permitted, shall each have a minimum
frontage of 20 feet on a dedicated public street, except where the panhandle or flagpole portions
of two panhandle- shaped or flagpole-shaped lots are adjacent to one another, if the combined
frontage on the public street shall be no less than 28 feet, and each lot has access of record over
the panhandle or flagpole portion of the other lot.
G. Through lots shall not be allowed unless vehicular access rights are relinquished to
one of the abutting streets.
H. The side lines of all lots shall be at right angles or radial to the street upon which
the lots front except where topography or other conditions render such requirement impossible or
impracticable.
I. Lot depth shall be at least 90 feet and shall be no greater than three times the
average width.
J. Subdivisions abutting prime arterial routes shown on the circulation element of the
City General Plan, railroads, transmission lines, easement and open flood control channels shall
be designed so that the lots do not face such rights- of-way.
K. Whenever practicable, side and rear lot lines shall be located along the top of manmade
slopes instead of at the toe or intermediate locations on such slopes.
17. 16 (l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
L. Each lot shall have a minimum of 20 feet frontage on a public street connected to
all portions of the public street system, except as provided in Chapters 16. 56 and 16. 57.
M. Each lot shall be designed to connect to the public sewer system or have a private
subsurface sewage system approved by the Department of Public Health of the County of San
Diego, provided no lot with such private system shall be created that is less than one- half acre in
size exclusive of all public or private road easements, unless such Department of Public Health
requires a larger area. An area smaller than one- half acre may be permitted if granted a variance
pursuant to the provisions of Title 18 of this code.
N. Bicycle trails shown in the City General Plan or any applicable specific plan shall be
included in the subdivision if such trails pass through or abut the subdivision, provided such trails
are reasonably related to the traffic caused by the subdivision. Whenever rights- of-way for streets
are required to be dedicated in subdivisions for 200 or more units, the subdivider shall include
bicycle trails when necessary and feasible for use for the safety of the residents. Bicycle trails
shall conform to the design criteria and the design and grade criteria in the " Planning and Design
Criteria for Bikeways in California" published by the State of California Business and Transportation
Agency, Department of Transportation.
O. Subdivisions approved by the City will have telephone service provided to every
individual lot and such telephone service shall show on the tentative map.
Prior Code 28-4. 1. 1; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 16.020 Private Street Access
Private street access requirements are found in Chapter 16. 57.
Prior Code 28- 4. 1. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 16.030 Private Street Access - Not Applicable to Certain Lot
Prior Code 28- 4. 1. 3; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 16. 040 Private Access for Commercial or Industrial Subdivisions
Prior Code 28- 4. 1. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 16.050 Mobile Home Park Access
Prior Code 28- 4. 1. 5; Ord No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
17. 16 (2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 20
Dedications
Sections:
17. 20.010 Dedications
17. 20.020 Public Streets - Generally
17. 20.030 Public Streets - New Streets Abutting Subdivisions
17. 20.040 Street Widths
17. 20.050 Subdivision Boundary
17. 20.060 Street Extensions
17. 20.070 Intersections
17. 20.080 Drainage Facilities - Generally
17. 20.090 Drainage Facilities - Extension
17. 20. 100 Drainage Facilities - Storm Runoff
17. 20. 110 Drainage Facilities - Additional
17. 20. 120 Access to Water or Open Space
17. 20. 130 Trails
17. 20. 140 Easements
17. 20. 150 Transit Facilities
Section 17. 20.010 Dedications
The subdivider shall, as a condition of creating the subdivision, dedicate, or offer to
dedicate, all streets, drainage easements, sewer easements, and other easements as may be
required by this title, as a condition of approval, or by City specifications.
Prior Code 28- 4. 2. 1)
Section 17. 20. 020 Public Streets - Generally
All public streets abutting the subdivision shall be dedicated to full half-street width unless
proper street alignment requires a greater dedication to complete a street.
Prior Code 28- 4. 2. 2)
Section 17. 20.030 Public Streets - New Streets Abutting Subdivisions
Where a new street is dedicated abutting a subdivision, and such street is not shown on
the General Plan or Specific Plan as wider than 60 feet in width, such dedication shall be a
minimum 40 feet in width with a one-foot strip on the outer edge of the street, which shall be
offered to the City for street purposes and over which access rights are relinquished.
Prior Code 28- 4. 2. 3)
Section 17. 20.040 Street Widths
An interior street in a subdivision which is or will in the future be a through street shall be
dedicated to 60 feet in width, unless it is a hillside street, or unless it is shown on the General
Plan, or a Specific Plan, as a street of greater or lesser width, in which case, it shall be dedicated
to the required or stated width. Other streets shall be dedicated to widths required by Chapters
16. 56, 19. 08, 19. 12 and 19. 16 of this code.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 4)
17. 20 (l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 20.050 Subdivision Boundary
All streets proposed to be terminated at the subdivision boundary shall include a strip of
land one foot wide across said street at its point of termination at said boundary which shall be
portions of the adjacent lots, offered for street purposes, and over which access rights are
relinquished.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 5)
Section 17. 20.060 Street Extensions
If it is necessary to extend a street beyond the boundaries of a subdivision to provide
adequate circulation for residents of the subdivision, the subdivider shall cause the required
easements to be dedicated to the City and shall improve such easements in accordance with the
provisions of this title.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 6)
Section 17. 20.070 Intersections
Intersections of local streets or of local streets with streets shown on the Circulation
Element of the City General Plan shall be offset by at least 250 feet.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 7)
Section 17. 20.080 Drainage Facilities - Generally
If a drainage facility or flood control facility is necessary for the use of lot owners or for the
protection of lots, adequate rights- of-way for such drainage facilities or flood control facilities shall
be offered for dedication to the City or to such other entities as the City Council designates, and
shall be shown on the map.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 8)
Section 17. 20.090 Drainage Facilities - Extension
If it is necessary to extend a drainage facility or flood control facility beyond the boundaries
of the subdivision for adequate drainage or flood control needs, the required rights-of-way shall be
offered for dedication and shown on the map.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 10)
Section 17. 20. 100 Drainage Facilities - Storm Runoff
Drainage facilities and flood control facilities within and without the subdivision shall
be provided so as to carry storm runoff both tributary to and originating within the
subdivision.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 10)
Section 17. 20. 110 Drainage Facilities - Additional
Drainage fees for other facilities shall be collected pursuant to Chapter 17.40 of this code.
Prior Code 28-4. 2. 11)
Section 17. 20. 120 Access to Water or Open Space
In addition to other dedications, each subdivision shall provide access to any stream, river
or lake, or any publicly owned lake or reservoir or open space which abuts or lies within the
17. 20 (2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
subdivision. This access may take the form of public streets, equestrian trails, foot trails, or other
means of access. The type of access and any improvements shall be determined at the time of
approval of the subdivision and shall depend on the following criteria:
A. Lakes and reservoirs shall require improved public street access;
B. Streams and rivers and open space shall require foot or equestrian access or bike
trails as may be most appropriate;
C. The provisions of subsections A and B of this section may be waived or modified if
access outside the subdivision exists. If no outside access exists, no subdivision will be approved
without the access specified by this section.
Prior code 28- 4. 2. 12)
Section 17. 20. 130 Trails
Bike trails and equestrian or hiking trails shall be dedicated where shown on the General
Plan or where such trails are necessary and feasible for the use and safety of the residents in
subdivisions of 200 or more lots.
Prior code 28- 4. 2. 13)
Section 17. 20. 140 Easements
Open space, scenic or other easements shall be dedicated where shown on the General
Plan. Open space, scenic or other public or private easement shall be identified on any final map
or parcel map and further documented on a grant deed. The City Engineer is authorized to accept
such deeds for easements on behalf of the City for public purposes and forward them to the Office
of the County Recorder for recording.
Prior code 28- 4. 2. 14; Ord. No. 2000- 3, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
Section 17. 20. 150 Transit Facilities
A. Land may be dedicated for local transit facilities such as bus turnoffs, benches,
shelters, landing pads, and similar items which directly benefit the residents of the subdivision, if:
1. The subdivision as shown on the tentative map has the potential for 200
units or more when developed to the maximum density shown on the adopted General Plan or
contains 100 acres or more or is shown on a specific plan; and
2. The City Council finds that, on recommendation of the North County Transit
District, transit services are available, or will within a reasonable time period be made available, to
the subdivision.
B. Provisions of this section do not apply to condominium projects or stock
cooperatives which consist of subdivision of air space in an existing apartment building which is
more than five years old when no new dwelling units are added.
Prior Code 28- 4. 2. 15)
17. 20 (3) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 24
Improvements
Sections:
17. 24.010 Generally
17. 24.020 Offers of Dedication
17. 24.030 Private Streets Serving Large Lots
17. 24.040 Sanitation
17. 24.050 Utilities
17. 24.060 Street Lights
17. 24.070 Flood control and Drainage
17. 24.080 Grading
17. 24.090 Street Trees
17. 24. 100 Trails and Easements
17. 24. 110 Timing
17. 24. 120 Remainder Parcel Improvements
17. 24. 130 Road Improvements
17. 24. 140 Single Family Zone 1/ 2 Acre or Larger
17. 24. 150 Single Family Residential Zones, Less that 1/ 2 Acre
17. 24. 160 Multi Family Residential Zones
17. 24. 170 Commercial and Industrial Zones
17. 24. 180 Private Streets
17. 24. 190 Miscellaneous Improvements - Standards
17. 24.200 Miscellaneous Improvements - Interpretations of Standards
17. 24.210 Additional Requirements
17. 24.220 Agreement to Improve
Section 17. 24.010 Generally
Before approving a final map the City Council shall require:
A. That the subdivider grade and improve or agree to grade and improve all land
dedicated or to be dedicated for streets or easements, bicycle trails, and all private streets and
private easements laid out on a final map in such manner and with such improvements as are
necessary for the use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs, and in accordance with City specifications;
B. That the subdivider install or agree to install all drainage and flood control
structures and facilities required by the City Engineer, which drainage and flood control
structures and facilities shall conform to City specifications;
C. That the subdivider provide proof satisfactory to the Director of Public Health of
the County of San Diego that there exists an adequate potable water supply available to each
lot or parcel and that the subdivider install or agree to install water supply pipe of such size as
may be recommend by the Fire Chief and the water district serving the subdivision;
D. That the subdivider install or agree to install as required by the Planning
Commission, fire hydrants and connections, which hydrants and connections shall be of a type
approved by the Fire Chief; and
E. That the subdivider provide all necessary easements and rights- of-way to
accommodate all streets, drainage and flood control structures and facilities and sewer systems
extending beyond the boundaries of the subdivision.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 1)
17. 24 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.24.020 Offers of Dedication
If the City Council rejects any offer of dedication of streets delineated on the map
pursuant to Section 66477. 1 of the Subdivision Map Act, no improvements shall be required on
any portion of such street so rejected by the City Council.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 2)
Section 17. 24.030 Private Streets Serving Large Lots
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 3; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17.24.040 Sanitation
If the City Council determines that by reason of the size and shape of the proposed lots,
the nature of the terrain to be subdivided, the soil condition of the lots and the development of
the area in the vicinity of the proposed subdivision, a public sewage disposal system serving the
lots will be required to preserve the public health, the City Council shall require the subdivider to
install or agree to install a public sewage disposal system or a public sewer system serving said
lots as a condition precedent to the approval of any final map.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 4)
Section 17. 24.050 Utilities
A. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television lines,
within the boundaries of any new subdivision or within any half-street abutting a new subdivision
shall be placed underground, except with regard to a subdivision of four or fewer lots as to
existing facilities. The subdivider is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities,
including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities. Transformers,
terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct, and other facilities necessarily
appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting systems may be placed above
ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of
the City Council upon consideration of a report by the Planning Commission, no licensed cable
television operator is found to be willing and able to install cable television lines in the
subdivision.
D. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in- lieu fee may
be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a cost per
foot basis using a typical 600 foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution circuit.
E. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account to be used as
approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
F. Subsection D may be applied to subdivisions existing on the effective date of this
section at any time before acceptance of improvements.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 5)
Section 17. 24.060 Street Lights
The subdivider shall construct or shall cause to be constructed at his cost a street
lighting system conforming to City specifications.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 6)
17. 24 ( 2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.24.070 Flood Control and Drainage
If the city has adopted a flood control element or drainage element of the General Plan,
wherever possible any improvements shall conform to such element.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 7)
Section 17.24.080 Grading
All grading on any lot created must be approved by the advisory agency at the time of
approval of the tentative map. Grading shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 17. 56 of this
code. If no immediate construction is intended, the tentative map may be conditioned by
requiring deed restrictions to make the grading conform to the required conditions. The building
official shall enforce all conditions of the tentative map and any deed restrictions which regulate
grading.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 8)
Section 17. 24.090 Street Trees
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 9; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17.24. 100 Trails and Easements
Bike, hiking and equestrian trails, open space easements, and scenic or other
easements not otherwise included in Chapters 17. 16 through 17. 48 shall be improved as
required by the Planning Commission.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 10)
Section 17.24. 110 Timing
The subdivider shall install all improvements required as part of the approval of the
tentative map pursuant to any provisions of Chapters 17. 16 through 17.48. When improvements
are required to be installed subsequent to final map approval, the agreement of the subdivider
providing for such installation shall be guaranteed and secured by one of the forms of
improvement security provided for in and governed by Chapter 5 of the Subdivision Map Act,
and furnished to the City by the subdivider. The City Engineer is authorized to release or reduce
the security in accordance with the conditions set forth in Section 66499.7 of the Subdivision
Map Act and rules and regulations prescribed by the City Council from time to time.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 11)
Section 17. 24. 120 Remainder Parcel Improvements
Any improvements normally required of a subdivision may be required of a remaining
parcel. For any remainder parcel, fulfillment of construction requirements for improvements shall
not be required until such time as a permit or other grant of approval for development of the
remainder parcel is issued by the City, or as may be guaranteed by a lien contract, or other
suitable guarantee, as a condition of approval of the tentative map. Absence of such an
agreement with the City may require fulfillment of such construction requirements within a
reasonable time following approval of the final or parcel map and prior to the issuance of any
permit or other grant of approval for the development of the remainder parcel upon a finding by
the City that fulfillment of the construction requirements is necessary for reasons of the public
health and safety, or the improvement is a necessary prerequisite for the orderly development of
the surrounding area.
Prior Code 28- 4. 3. 12)
17. 24 ( 3) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.24. 130 Road Improvements
Public road improvement requirements are found in Chapter 16. 56.
Prior Code 28- 4. 4. 1; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed & Added, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 24. 140 Single Family Zone 1/ 2 Acre or Larger
Prior Code 28- 4. 4. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17.24. 150 Single Family Residential Zones, Less than 1/ 2 Acre
Prior Code 28- 4. 4. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17.24. 160 Multi family Residential Zones
Prior Code 28- 4. 4. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17.24. 170 Commercial and Industrial Zones
Prior Code 28- 4. 4. 5; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 24. 180 Private Streets
Prior Code 28- 4. 5. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 24. 190 Miscellaneous Improvements - Standards
All street and drainage facility construction shall conform to City specifications as
modified by soil conditions. Where no specifications exist, sound engineering practices as
determined by the City Engineer shall be followed.
Prior Code 28- 4. 5. 2)
Section 17. 24.200 Miscellaneous Improvements - Interpretation of Standards
In defining and interpreting the standards of Sections 17.24. 180 through 17. 24. 220,
applicable provisions of Chapters 12. 04, 16.56, 17. 52, and 19. 04 through 19. 16 of this code
may be considered.
Prior Code 28- 4. 5. 3)
Section 17.24.210 Additional Requirements
Prior Code 28- 4. 5. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 17. 24.220 Agreement to Improve
A. If a subdivider or property owner or his agent agrees to construct improvements,
or if authorized by the City Council to contract to initiate and consummate special assessment
district proceedings in lieu of constructing improvements, all as provided in the Subdivision Map
Act ( Government Code Section 66462), he shall prepare and deposit with the City Engineer
plans and specifications of the improvements to be constructed and such plans and
specifications shall be made a part of any such agreement or contract and of the improvement
security.
17. 24 ( 4) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. All improvement agreements, associated with any final map, parcel map or site
plan shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney and executed by the City Engineer, or his
designee, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 17. 24.220(C).
C. The City Engineer, or his designee, is authorized to execute improvement
agreements on behalf of the City provided:
1. The term of the improvement agreement shall not exceed two years, nor
be extended for more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the improvement
agreement.
2. The amount of security to be deposited shall be based on the estimated
cost of the improvements approved by the City Engineer.
3. The improvements shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer.
4. The improvements shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary manner at
the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who shall hold
the City harmless with respect thereto.
D. The subdivider or developer may appeal any action of the City Engineer
concerning the improvement agreement to the City Council pursuant to Vista Development
Code Section 18. 04. 150. The City Council shall review this delegation of authority to the City
Engineer every three years pursuant to Government Code Section 66462.
Prior Code 28- 4. 5. 5; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
17. 24 ( 5) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 28
Reservations
Sections:
17. 28.010 Requirements
17. 28.020 Standards and Formula for Reservation of Land
17. 28.030 Procedure
17. 28.040 Payment
17. 28.050 Termination
Section 17. 28.010 Requirements
As a condition of approval of a final map or parcel map, the subdivider shall reserve
sites, appropriate in area and location, for parks, recreational facilities, fire stations, libraries, or
other public uses according to the standards and formula contained in this division.
Prior Code 28- 4. 6. 1)
Section 17. 28.020 Standards and Formula for Reservation of Land
If a park, recreational facility, fire station, library, or other public use is shown on an
adopted specific plan or adopted general plan containing a community facilities element,
recreation and parks element or a public building element, the subdivider may be required by
the City to reserve sites as so determined by the City in accordance with the definite principles
and standards contained in the above Specific Plan or General Plan. The reserved area must be
of such size and shape as to permit the balance of the property within which the reservation is
located to develop in an orderly and efficient manner. The amount of land to be reserved shall
not make development of the remaining land held by the subdivider economically unfeasible.
The reserved area shall conform to the adopted specific plan or general plan and shall be in
such multiples of streets and parcels as to permit an efficient division of the reserved area in
the event that it is not acquired within the prescribed period.
Prior Code 28- 4. 6. 3)
Section 17. 28. 030 Procedure
The public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved shall at the time of
approval of the final map or parcel map enter into a binding agreement to acquire such reserved
area within two years after the completion and acceptance of all improvements, unless such
period of time is extended by mutual agreement.
Prior Code 28- 4. 6. 3)
Section 17.28.040 Payment
The purchase price shall be the market value thereof at the time of the filing of the
tentative map plus the taxes against such reserved area from the date of the reservation and
any other costs incurred by the subdivider in the maintenance of such reserved area,
including interest costs incurred on any loan covering such reserved area.
Prior Code 28- 4. 6. 4)
17. 28 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.28.050 Termination
If the public agency for whose benefit an area has been reserved does not enter into
such a binding agreement, the reservation of such area shall automatically terminate.
Prior Code 28- 4. 6. 5)
17. 28 ( 2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.32
Park and Recreational Dedications
Sections:
17. 32.010 Authority
17. 32.020 Requirements
17. 32.030 General Standards
17. 32.040 Filing
17. 32.050 Standards and Formula for Dedication of Land
17. 32.060 Dwelling Units Not Proposed by Subdivider
17. 32.070 Fees In- Lieu of Land Dedication
17. 32.080 Use of Money
17. 32.090 Criteria for Requiring Both Dedication and Fee
17. 32. 100 Subdivisions Not Within the General Plan
17. 32. 110 Determination of Land or Fee
17. 32. 120 Credit for Private Open Space
17. 32. 130 Procedure
17. 32. 140 Commencement of Park Development
17. 32. 150 Regulations
17. 32. 160 Exceptions
Section 17. 32.010 Authority
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Section 66477 of the
Subdivision Map Act. The park and recreational facilities for which dedication of land or
payment of a fee, or both, is required by this chapter shall be in accordance with the
recreational element of the General Plan of the City.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 1)
Section 17. 32.020 Requirements
As a condition of approval of any final map or parcel map, the subdivider shall dedicate
land, pay a fee in- lieu thereof, or both, at the option of the City, for park and recreational
purposes at the time and according to the standards and formulas contained in this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 2)
Section 17. 32.030 General Standards
It is found and determined that the public interest, convenience, health and welfare, and
safety require that 4.49 acres of land for each 1, 000 persons residing within this City be devoted
to neighborhood and community park and recreational purposes.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 3; Ord. No. 2008- 8, Amended, 2/ 12/ 08)
Section 17. 32.040 Filing
At the time of filing a tentative map the subdivider shall, as a part of such filing, indicate
whether he prefers to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes, or pay a fee in- lieu
thereof, or a combination thereof. If he prefers to dedicate land, he shall specify the land
proposed to be dedicated. In order to facilitate decisions regarding dedication of land, the
17. 32 ( l) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
subdivider shall furnish a tabulation showing the number of dwelling units proposed to be
constructed in each portion of the development. The tabulation may be waived by the Director
of Planning, if, in his judgment, the information is not necessary.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 4)
Section 17. 32.050 Standards and Formula for Dedication of Land
If a park or recreational facility has been designated in the recreational element, and is
located in whole or part within the proposed subdivision to serve the immediate and future
needs of the residents of the subdivision, the subdivider shall, if acceptable to the City Council,
dedicate land for a neighborhood or community park sufficient in size and topography to serve
the residents of the subdivision. The amount of land to be provided shall be determined
pursuant to the following formula:
L = 4.49 xDxN
1, 000
For the purposes of the preceding equation: ( 1) " L" is the amount of park area ( in acres)
required to be dedicated to the City by the subdivider; (2) 4.49/ 1, 000 is a constant reflecting the
area of park land ( in acres) required per 1, 000 of population pursuant to the recreational
element of the General Plan; ( 3) " D" is the density' factor which means the average persons per
household generated by a particular housing type, based on data compiled by the U. S. Census
Bureau and published by the San Diego Association of Governments ( SANDAL), to wit:
1. Single-family dwelling units and duplexes: 3. 21 persons per dwelling unit;
2. Multiple- family dwelling units: 3. 19 persons per dwelling unit;
3. Mobile home dwelling units: 2. 16 persons per dwelling unit; and
4) " N" is the total number of dwelling units proposed to be constructed within a subdivision.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 5; Ord. No. 2008- 8, Amended, 2/ 12/ 08)
Section 17. 32.060 Dwelling Units not Proposed by Subdivider
A. In all cases in which the City is not furnished, at the time of filing of the tentative
map, with the number and type of dwelling units proposed by the subdivider to be constructed
on lots within the subdivision, the number of dwelling units in the subdivision and the occupant
density per dwelling unit shall be determined in accordance with the following table:
Occupant Density Per
Proposed Zone Dwelling Unit Units Per Acre
A- 1 3. 21 1
E- 1 3. 21 2
R- 1 3. 21 4
R- 1- B 3. 21 7
RM 3. 19 10+ '
SPI 3. 19- 3. 2 12 3
MHD 2. 16 4
Actual units per acre will vary depending upon density designator attached to property' s zoning;
i. e., RM- 10 indicates an allowable density of 10 du' s/ acre.
2 Actual number is proportionate to ratio of area within subdivision zoned for single family and multifamily
use.
3 Actual units per acre will be as set forth in existing Specific Plan unless a new or amended Specific
Plan is proposed.
4 Actual units per acre will be as set forth in the Site Development Plan which must accompany a
Tentative Subdivision Map application.
17. 32 (2) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
B. In the case of a PRD Zone, the number of units per acre shall be that of the
zone, and the density shall be 3. 21 persons per dwelling unit up to and including PRD- 14, and
3. 19 persons per dwelling unit above PRD- 14.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 6, Ord. No. 2008- 8, Amended, 2/ 12/ 08)
Section 17. 32.070 Fees In- Lieu of Land Dedication
If the proposed subdivision contains 50 lots or less or if there is to be no dedication of
land acceptable to the City Council, the subdivider shall, in- lieu of dedication of land, pay a fee
in an amount determined by resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 7)
Section 17. 32.080 Use of Money
The money collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be used only for the
purpose of providing park or recreational facilities reasonably related to serving the subdivision,
by way of the purchase of necessary land, or, if the City Council, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission and the Parks and Recreation Commission, deems that there is sufficient
land available for the subdivision, for improving of such land for park and recreational purposes.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 9)
Section 17. 32.090 Criteria for Requiring Both Dedication and Fee
In subdivisions of over 50 lots described in Subsections A and B of this section, the
subdivider shall both dedicate land and pay a fee in- lieu thereof in accordance with the following
provisions:
A. If only a portion of the land to be subdivided is proposed as the site for a City
Council, for neighborhood or community park purposes and a fee computed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be paid in addition thereto;
B. If a major part of the neighborhood or community park or recreational site has
already been acquired by the City and only a portion of land is needed from the subdivision to
complete the site, such remaining portion shall be dedicated, if acceptable to the City Council,
and a fee computed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be paid in addition thereto.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 10)
Section 17. 32. 100 Subdivisions Not Within the General Plan
If the proposed subdivision lies within an area not then, but to be included within the
City' s General Plan, the subdivider shall dedicate land, pay a fee in- lieu thereof, or both, in
accordance with the adopted park and recreational principles and standards of the City' s
General Plan and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 12)
Section 17. 32. 110 Determination of Land or Fee
The decision of the City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and
the Parks and Recreation Commission, to accept land dedication or elect to require payment of
a fee in- lieu thereof, or a combination of both, shall be final and conclusive and shall be
determined by consideration of the following:
A. Recreational element of the General Plan;
17. 32 (3) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Topography, geology, access, availability of public services and facilities, and
location of land within the subdivision available for dedication;
C. Size and shape of the subdivision;
D. Feasibility of dedication;
E. Compatibility of dedication with the recreational element of the General Plan; and
F. Availability of previously acquired park property.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 13)
Section 17. 32. 120 Credit for Private Open Space
If private open space for park and recreational purposes is provided in a proposed
subdivision, and such space is to be privately owned and maintained by the future residents of
the subdivision, partial credit may be given against the requirement of land dedication or
payment of fees in- lieu thereof, not to exceed 75% of such requirement, if the City Council, after
considering recommendations of the Planning Commission and the Parks and Recreation
Commission, finds that it is in the public interest to do so and that all the following standards are
met:
A. That yards, court areas, setbacks and other open areas required to be
maintained by the zoning and building ordinances and regulations shall not be included in the
computation of such private open space;
B. That the private ownership and maintenance of the open space is adequately
provided for by recorded written agreement, conveyance or restrictions;
C. That the use of the private open space is restricted for parks and recreational
purposes by recorded covenant, which runs with the land in favor of the future owners of
property and which cannot be defeated or eliminated without the consent of the City or its
successors;
D. That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use for park
and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such facts as size, shape, topography,
geology, access and location;
E. That facilities proposed for the open space are in substantial accordance with the
provisions of the recreational element of the General Plan; and
F. That the open space and improvements for which credit is given meets the goals
and objectives of policies set forth in the recreational element of the General Plan. The City
Council, after reviewing recommendations from the Planning Commission and the Parks and
Recreation Commission, shall make written findings that the open space and improvements
meet the policies, goals and objectives of the General Plan. Before credit is given, a
determination must be made that the improvements have been completed, or equipment
installed, with prior approvals and to the satisfaction of the Director of Recreation and
Community Services.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 14; Ord. No. 2008- 8, Amended, 2/ 12/ 08)
Section 17. 32. 130 Procedure
A. At the time of approval of the tentative map, the City Council, upon
recommendations of the Planning Commission and the Parks and Recreation Commission,
shall determine the land to be dedicated or the fees to be paid, or both, by the subdivider.
B. At the time of the approval of the tentative parcel map for a minor subdivision, or
parcel map for a major subdivision, the Director of Planning shall determine the fees to be paid
by the subdivider. The subdivider has a right of appeal to the City Council from any decision of
the Director of Planning in connection with the amount of the fee to be paid.
17. 32 (4) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
C. In the event the City Council has determined that fees should be paid in- lieu of,
or in addition to, the dedication of land, or the Director of Planning has determined fees are to
be paid, the subdivider shall pay said fees, in their entirety, before the final map or parcel map
may be recorded.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 15)
Section 17. 32. 140 Commencement of Park Development
Acquisition and development of park and recreational facilities for which land has been
dedicated or for which fees have been paid, or both, will begin when the City Council
determines that sufficient development has occurred so as to render the park or recreational
facilities reasonably appropriate.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 16)
Section 17. 32. 150 Regulations
The City Council may, from time to time, approve such regulations as it deems
necessary to implement the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 17)
Section 17. 32. 160 Exceptions
The following are excepted from the provisions of this chapter:
A. Industrial subdivisions;
B. Subdivisions of four or fewer lots not residentially zoned; provided, however, a
condition shall be placed on the approval of such map that if a building permit is requested for
construction of a residential structure or structures on one or more of the parcels within four
years, a fee shall be required to be paid as determined by resolution of the City Council, by the
owner of each such parcel as a condition to the issuance of such building permit;
C. The United States, State of California, school districts, counties, cities and other
public agencies;
D. A subdivision containing less than five parcels for a shopping center containing
more than 300, 000 square feet of gross leasable area and no residential development or uses;
and
E. Condominium projects which consist of the subdivision of airspace in an existing
apartment building which is more than five years old when no new dwelling units are added.
Prior Code 28- 4. 7. 18)
17. 32 (5) Vista 6/ 24/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 36
School Sites and Supplemental Improvements
Sections:
17. 36.010 Requirements
17. 36.020 Procedure
17. 36.030 Payments to Subdivider for School Site Dedication
17. 36.040 Exemptions
17. 36.050 Supplemental Improvements - Required
17. 36.060 Supplemental Improvements - Hearings - Reimbursement Charges and
Agreements
17. 36.070 Supplemental Improvements - Sewerage, Bridges and Major Thoroughfares
Section 17. 36.010 Requirements
As a condition of approval of a final map, a subdivider who develops or completes the
development of one or more subdivisions within any school district shall dedicate to the school
district such lands as the City Council shall deem to be necessary for the purpose of
constructing thereon schools necessary to assure the residents of the subdivision adequate
elementary school service.
Prior Code 28- 4. 8. 1)
Section 17. 36.020 Procedure
The requirement of dedication shall be imposed at the time of approval of the tentative
map. If within 30 days after the requirement of dedication is imposed by the City, the school
district does not offer to enter into a binding commitment with the subdivider to accept the
dedication, the requirement shall be automatically terminated. The required dedication may be
made any time before, concurrently with, or up to 60 days after the filing of the final map on any
portion of the subdivision.
Prior Code 28- 4. 8. 2)
Section 17. 36.030 Payments to Subdivider for School Site Dedication
The applicable school district shall, if it accepts the dedication, repay to the subdivider or
his successors the original cost to the subdivider of the dedicated land, plus a sum equal to the
total of the following amounts:
A. The cost of any improvements to the dedicated land since acquisition by the
subdivider.
B. The taxes assessed against the dedicated land from the date of the school
district' s offer to enter into the binding commitment to accept the dedication.
C. Any other costs incurred by the subdivider in maintenance of such dedicated
land, including interest costs incurred on any loan covering such land.
Prior Code 28- 4. 8. 3)
Section 17. 36.040 Exemptions
The provisions of Sections 17. 36.010 through 17. 36.030 shall not be applicable to a
subdivider who has owned the land being subdivided for more than ten years prior to the filing of
17. 36 ( l) Vista 7/ 20/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
the tentative maps.
Prior Code 28- 4. 8. 4)
Section 17. 36.050 Supplemental Improvements - Required
The subdivider may be required to install improvements for the benefit of the subdivision
which may contain supplemental size, capacity, number or length for the benefit of property not
within the subdivision as a condition precedent to the approval of the final map or parcel map,
and thereafter to dedicate such improvements to the public; supplemental length may include
minimum- sized off-site sewer lines necessary to reach a sewer outlet in existence at the time.
However, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the subdivider shall be reimbursed for
that portion of the cost of such improvements ( excluding easements), including an amount
attributable to interest, in excess of the construction required for the subdivision, pursuant to the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.
Prior Code 28- 4. 9. 1)
Section 17. 36.060 Supplemental Improvements - Hearings - Reimbursement Charges
and Agreements
A. The City Council shall hold a public hearing to establish the charge, area of
benefit or local benefit district, which shall only be established if the City Council finds that the
reimbursement charge and the area of benefit or local benefit district are reasonably related to
the cost of such supplemental improvements and the actual ultimate beneficiaries thereof. The
City Engineer shall report on the reasonableness of the cost of the improvement, and the
Council may reduce the charge to the extent that the Council finds the costs to be
unreasonable. The Council shall adopt a resolution formalizing its findings and containing legal
descriptions of each property, the charge to be imposed on each property, and the identity of
the property owner. If a charge is approved, a certified copy of the resolution shall be recorded
with the County Recorder and the City Engineer shall enter into the appropriate reimbursement
agreement with the developer.
B. In addition to the notice required by Section 66451. 3 of the Government Code,
written notice of the hearing shall be given to the subdivider and to owners of property within the
proposed area of benefit and to the potential users of the supplemental improvements insofar as
they can be ascertained at the time as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll. Such
notices shall be mailed by the City Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date established for
hearing.
C. In the event owners of parcels subject to a majority of the charge object to the
charge, the Council may only approve the charge by the affirmative vote of at least four of its
members.
D. In the event the subdivider constructs the improvements before the Council
hearing, the City shall not be obligated to reimburse the subdivider out of City funds should the
Council not establish the charge, area of benefit or local benefit district, and all risk of such
failure to levy the charge shall be the subdivider's.
E. In the event the subdivider requests City Council action prior to the construction
of such improvements, the City Engineer may, upon final approval and signing of improvement
drawings, determine the amount of reimbursement based on the submitted engineer's cost
estimate. The City Council' s action pursuant to Subsection A of this section shall be a
declaration of its intention based on such estimates. The Council shall hold a second hearing,
with appropriate notice, findings and resolution, to actually establish the charges and areas
based upon as- built costs after completion and acceptance of the improvements.
17. 36 (2) Vista 7/ 20/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
F. If, during the 20-year period following the adoption pursuant to Subsection A of
this section of the resolution establishing the benefit area, any person who files a tentative map
or tentative parcel map, or applies for a building permit on a lot for which a charge for said
supplemental improvements has been established in accordance with the provisions of Sections
17. 36. 050 through 17. 36.070, and such person or his predecessor in interest has not paid such
charges to the City, the charge established thereunder shall be paid prior to the filing of the final
map or parcel map, or the issuance of the building permit; provided, however, that such
payment shall not be required in connection with building permits having a total improvement
value of $ 3, 000 or less; and, provided further that the money paid shall include the principal
charge plus interest. The rate of interest shall be equal to the yield on the 20- year United States
Treasury Note on the date of the adoption of the above referenced resolution per the " h. 15"
report as published by the Federal Reserve. This interest rate shall be fixed and applied for the
entire life of the agreement, compounded annually, and prorated for any partial year. Upon the
payment of such charge, the City Clerk shall record with the County Recorder a notice
satisfactory to the City Attorney that such charge has been paid on such parcel.
Prior Code 28- 4. 9. 2; Ord. No. 2008- 16, Amended, 6/ 10/ 08)
Section 17. 36.070 Supplemental Improvements-Sewerage, Bridges and Major
Thoroughfares
If the City has adopted a local sanitary sewer plan or map as required for the imposition
of fees therefore, or has established an area of benefit for bridges or major thoroughfares, the
City may impose a reasonable charge on property within the area benefited and may provide for
the collection of such charge as set forth in this chapter. The City may enter into reimbursement
agreements with a subdivider who constructs such facilities, bridges, or thoroughfares and the
charges collected by the City therefore may be utilized to reimburse the subdivider as set forth
in this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 4. 9. 3)
17. 36 (3) Vista 7/ 20/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.40
Drainage fees
Sections:
17. 40. 010 Established
17. 40. 020 Planned Local Drainage Facilities
17. 40. 030 PLDF Areas
17. 40. 040 Computation of Drainage Fees
17. 40. 050 Payment of Fees
17. 40. 060 Adjustment of Fees
17. 40. 070 Reimbursement Agreements
17. 40. 080 Applicability
17. 40. 090 Established
Section 17. 40.010 Established
Planned local drainage (" PLD") areas for the City are established, which cover the entire
drainage area of the City as adopted by the City Council. Said PLD areas are depicted upon a
map entitled " Master Plan Drainage; Drainage Basin Map; Vista, California," prepared by L& S
Consultants, designated sheet one of 61 sheets, included in that certain " Drainage Master Plan,
City of Vista, California," dated April 13, 1983, adopted by reference in this section and any
amendments thereto, a copy of which plan is on file in the office of the City Clerk. This report
contains cost estimates for necessary construction within planned local drainage areas based
upon the 1982 Consumer Price Index.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 1)
Section 17. 40.020 Planned Local Drainage Facilities
The City Council finds that the subdivision of land within the meaning of the Subdivision
Map Act will require the construction of those drainage facilities described in said drainage
master plan. Such facilities shall be referred to in this chapter as " planned local drainage
facilities" or " PLDF." The City Council further finds that all properties within each of such
planned local drainage areas will be benefited by construction of the local drainage facilities
proposed for each of such areas.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 2)
Section 17. 40.030 PLDF Areas
The City Council also finds that the PL15F fees set forth by resolution will be charged
within each such PLD area as follows:
A. PLD Area 1:
1. Agua Hedionda Basin
2. Buena Creek Basin
B. PLD Area 2:
1. Gopher Canyon Basin
2. Guajome Basin
17. 40 ( l) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
C. PLD Area 3:
1. Buena Vista Creek Basin
2. Eucalyptus Avenue Basin
3. FoothillNale Terrace Basin
4. Monte Vista Basin
5. North Santa Fe Basin
6. Sunset Basin
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 3)
Section 17. 40.040 Computation of Drainage Fees
The fees levied by this chapter shall be paid to the City in the enumerated amount, to
defray the pro rata costs of the impact of the physical development against which the fee is
assessed.
A. Commercial, industrial, nonresidential governmental, church, public, nonprofit,
institutional, and all other categories of nonresidential construction and residential construction
shall be required to pay the fee based on the area ( acreage) of land to be developed. Where
only a portion of a legal parcel is to be developed, and further development of such parcel is
reasonable, the fee to be charged shall be based on the area to be developed.
B. For every acre of land, or portion thereof, which is developed subsequent to the
adoption of this section, the fee set by resolution will be charged for drainage facilities in the
following PLDF areas:
1. Agua Hedionda Basin
2. Buena Creek Basin
3. Gopher Canyon Basin
4. Guajome Basin
5. Buena Vista Creek Basin
6. Eucalyptus Avenue Basin
7. FoothillNale Terrace Basin
8. Monte Vista Basin
9. North Santa Fe Basin
10. Sunset Basin
Such fees, as set forth by resolution, represent a revision of the fees specified in
Ordinance No. 83-36. Said revisions, which apply to residential and nonresidential
development, reflect the increased cost of constructing such facilities and the addition of
subsequent drainage areas in accordance with the master drainage plan.
C. Pursuant to Section 66483 of the Government Code, such fees are fairly
apportioned within drainage areas on the basis of benefits conferred on property proposed for
development or on the need for such facilities created by the proposed development of other
property within such areas. Such fees do not provide for the full cost recovery of providing the
required drainage facilities as enumerated in the master drainage plan.
D. Such drainage fees shall be collected and deposited into the appropriate account
of the development trust fund of the City.
E. For the purpose of computing the fee set forth by resolution, acreage shall be
computed as gross acreage to the center line of streets abutting the property in question and
fees for fractional acreage shall be prorated.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 4)
17. 40 (2) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 40.050 Payment of Fees
Any drainage fees required by this title shall be paid prior to issuance of a building permit,
or, at the request of the applicant, deferred until all work required for final inspection has been
completed and all department approvals required for final inspection have been obtained by the
applicant. Such fees shall be assessed at the per acre rate on each parcel on which building
reconstruction or remodeling occurs except where the reconstruction or remodeling is 150 percent
or less of the present square footage of the building to be reconstructed or remodeled. If the
applicant chooses to defer the payment of fees to prior to the request for final inspection, then the
amount of the fees shall be based on the fees in effect at the time of the request for final
inspection. In the event that the City fails to collect any or all fees prior to final inspection, such
fees shall remain the obligation of the developer and/ or property owner.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 5; Ord. No. 2016- 11, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 17. 40.060 Adjustment of Fees
A. Annually, prior to July 1st of each year, the City Council shall conduct a public
hearing for the purpose of reviewing and adjusting the drainage fee schedule contained in
Section 17. 40. 040 B. Among other criteria to be considered by the City Council in its review
and/ or adjustment of drainage fees shall be the annual percentage increase in the McGraw- Hill
Construction Index as of April 1st next preceding the public hearing provided for in this section.
Such public hearing, and fee adjustment if any, shall be noticed and conducted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 54992 of the California Government Code.
B. Appropriations and expenditures from each account within such fund shall be
made only for specified related capital projects, and only through the City annual budgetary
process.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 7)
Section 17. 40.070 Use of Drainage Fees
Fees collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be segregated according to their
source and deposited into a planned local drainage facilities fund established for each PLD area
and the funds therein and interest accruing thereto shall be expended solely for the construction
of or for reimbursement for construction of PLDFs within each such area.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 8)
Section 17. 40.080 Reimbursement Agreements
The City Council may, at its discretion, enter into a reimbursement agreement with a
developer in accordance with Section 19. 08. 090 of this code, for permanent off-site construction
when such developer has constructed a planned local drainage facility. Reimbursements shall
be made only as fees are collected in connection with development of other property in the same
planned drainage area in which the facilities were constructed. The amount of reimbursement
shall be limited to actual excess cost, including engineering and other costs ( not to exceed ten
percent total), of such facilities at the time they were constructed, in excess of the drainage fees
required pursuant to the provisions set forth by resolution. The term of reimbursement agreement
shall not exceed ten years. Said reimbursement agreement shall provide full recovery of City
administrative costs relative to defining area of benefit and administration of the agreement.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 9)
17. 40 (3) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 40.090 Applicability
This chapter shall not be applicable to any tentative map filed prior to the 31 st day after
the effective date of this chapter.
Editor' s Note: The effective date of the ordinance codified in Chapter 17.40 is
3/ 19/ 75.
Prior Code 28- 4. 10. 10)
17. 40 (4) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.44
Monuments
Sections:
17. 44.010 Monuments
17. 44.020 Boundary Monuments
17. 44.030 Parcel Corner Monuments
17. 44.040 Additional Monuments
17. 44.050 Deferral of Monuments -Final Map
17. 44.060 Deferral of Monuments - Parcel Maps
Section 17. 44.010 Monuments
Prior to the recording of any final map or parcel map, monuments shall be set by a licensed
land surveyor or registered civil engineer, except as provided by this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 4. 11. 1)
Section 17. 44.020 Boundary Monuments
The exterior boundary of a subdivision shall be monumented with permanent monuments,
not smaller than two- inch iron pipes at least 18 inches long, with concrete core and disk, stamped
with surveyor or engineer number, at each corner, angle point, beginning and end points of all
curves, with the following exceptions:
A. Found monuments of record need not be replaced with two- inch iron pipes;
B. Any monument which falls within a public dedicated street shall be set at the
ultimate right- of-way line at the intersection with exterior boundary lines;
C. With prior approval of the City Engineer, deviations may be allowed where physical
conditions make it impracticable to set two- inch iron pipes, or a multiplicity of short courses occurs
on the boundary to be monumented.
Prior Code 28- 4. 11. 2)
Section 17. 44.030 Parcel Corner Monuments
All lot corners and all angle points in a parcel boundary, except when coincident with
exterior boundary corner, shall be monumented with permanent monuments of one of the following
types:
A. Three-fourths- inch diameter iron pipe at least 12 inches long, or at the option of the
subdivider, one- half inch diameter iron pin at least 18 inches long. In either case, the monument
shall bear the surveyor or engineer number;
B. Lead plug and copper identification disks set in concrete sidewalks or curbs;
provided, however, that with prior approval of the City Engineer, deviations may be allowed where
physical conditions make it impracticable to set monuments or a multiplicity of short courses occurs
on the boundary to be monumented.
Prior Code 28-4. 11. 3)
Section 17. 44.040 Additional Monuments
Such additional monuments to mark the limiting lines and center lines of streets as the City
Engineer may require shall be set.
Prior Code 28-4. 11. 4)
17. 44 ( l) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 44.050 Deferral of Monuments - Final Map
A. Monuments for subdivisions requiring a final map, except for exterior boundaries,
may be deferred for up to 30 days after completion of improvements for the subdivision provided:
1. The subdivider shall guarantee that the monuments shall be set and shall
secure such guarantee by an improvement agreement, approved as to form by the City Attorney
and security in the form of cash, bond, letter of credit, or certificate of deposit. The City Engineer,
or his designee, may execute the improvement agreement on behalf of the City subject to the
conditions set forth in Section 17. 44. 050( B).
2. Temporary monuments are set by such surveyor of record for construction
purposes prior to recording the final map.
3. The subdivider guarantees the location of all improvements and all buildings
to be constructed.
B. The City Engineer, or his designee, is authorized to execute improvement
agreements on behalf of the City provided:
1. The term of the improvement agreement shall not exceed two years, nor be
extended for more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the improvement agreement.
2. The amount of the security to be deposited shall be based on the estimated
cost of monumentation approved by the City Engineer.
3. The monuments shall be set in accordance with map approved by the City
Engineer.
4. The monuments shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary manner at the
sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who shall hold the City
harmless with respect thereto.
Prior Code 28-4. 11. 5; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
Section 17. 44.060 Deferral of Monuments - Parcel Maps
No monuments for subdivisions requiring a parcel map shall be deferred.
Prior Code 28-4. 11. 6)
17. 44 (2) Vista 4/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.48
Major Thoroughfare and Bridge Fees
Sections:
17. 48. 010 Purpose
17. 48. 020 Definitions
17. 48. 030 Circulation Element
17. 48. 040 Payment of Fees Required
17. 48. 050 Consideration in Lieu of Fees
17. 48. 060 Eligible Improvements
17. 48. 070 Public Hearing
17. 48. 080 Filing of Protest
17. 48. 090 Majority Protest
17. 48. 100 Establishing Area of Benefit - Confirmation
17. 48. 110 Exceptions
17. 48. 120 Deposit of Fees Collected
Section 17. 48.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to make provision for assessing and collecting fees as a
condition of approval of a final map or as a condition of issuing a building permit for the purpose
of defraying the actual or estimated costs of constructing bridges over waterways, railways,
freeways and canyons, or constructing major thoroughfares pursuant to Section 66484 of the
Government Code.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 1)
Section 17. 48.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words are used in this chapter, they have the following meaning:
Construction" means design, acquisition of right- of-way, administration of construction
contracts and actual construction.
Bridges" refers to the transportation or flood control provisions shown on the
Circulation Element of the City' s General Plan which identifies railways, freeways, streams or
canyons for which bridge crossings are required on General Plan or local roads.
Major thoroughfares" means a roadway as shown on the Circulation Element of the
General Plan whose primary purpose is to carry through- traffic and provide a network
connecting to the state highway system.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 2)
Section 17. 48.030 Circulation Element
Whenever this chapter refers to the Circulation Element of the General Plan or to the
transportation or flood control provisions thereof, it means the Circulation Element of the
General Plan and the transportation and flood control provisions thereof heretofore adopted by
the City pursuant to Chapter 3 of Title 7 of the Government Code, together with any additions or
amendments thereto hereafter adopted.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 3)
17. 48 (l) Vista 4/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 48.040 Payment of Fees Required
A. Prior to filing a final map which includes land within an area of benefit established
pursuant to this chapter, the subdividers shall pay or cause to be paid any fees established and
apportioned to such property pursuant to this chapter for the purpose of defraying the actual or
estimated cost of constructing bridges over waterways, railways, freeways or canyons or
constructing major thoroughfares.
B. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction on any property within
an area of benefit established pursuant to this chapter, the applicant for such permit shall pay or
cause to be paid any fees established and apportioned pursuant to this chapter for the purpose
of defraying the actual or estimated cost of constructing major thoroughfares, unless such fees
have been paid pursuant to Subsection A of this section.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 4)
Section 17. 48.050 Consideration in Lieu of Fees
Upon application by the subdivider or applicant for a building permit, the City Council
may accept consideration in lieu of fees required pursuant to this chapter; provided, that the City
Council finds upon recommendation of the Director of Public Works, that the substitute
consideration has a value equal to or greater than the fee; provided, further, that the substitute
consideration is in a form acceptable to the City Council.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 5)
Section 17. 48.060 Eligible Improvements
Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections A and B of Section 17. 48. 040:
A. Payment of bridge fees shall not be required unless the planned bridge facility is
an original bridge serving the area or in addition to any existing bridge facility serving the area at
the time of adoption of the boundaries of the area of benefit. Such fees shall not be expended to
reimburse the cost of existing bridge facility construction;
B. Payment of major thoroughfare fees shall not be required unless the major
thoroughfares are in addition to, or a reconstruction of, any existing major thoroughfares serving
the area at the time of the adoption of the boundaries of the area of benefit.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 6)
Section 17. 48.070 Public Hearing
A. Prior to establishing an area of benefit, a public hearing shall be held by the City
Council, at which time the boundaries of the area of benefit, the cost, whether actual or
estimated, and a fair method of allocation of costs of the area of benefit and fee apportionment,
and the fees to be collected shall be established.
B. Notice of the public hearing shall be given pursuant to Section 65905 of the
Government Code. In addition to the requirements of Section 65905 of the Government Code,
such notice shall contain preliminary information related to the boundaries of the area of
benefit, estimated cost and the method of fee apportionment.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 7)
Section 17.48.080 Filing of Protest
At any time not later than the hour set for hearing objections to the proposed bridge
facility or major thoroughfare, any owner of property to be benefitted by the improvement may
17. 48 (2) Vista 4/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
file a written protest against the proposed bridge facility or major thoroughfare or against the
extent of the area to be benefitted by the improvements or against the method of allocating the
costs or against any of these. Such protests must be in writing and must contain a description of
the property in which each protestant thereof is interested, sufficient to identify the same and if
the protestants are not shown on the last equalized assessment roll as the owners of such
property, must contain or be accompanied by written evidence that such protestants are the
owners of such property. All such protests shall be delivered to the City Clerk and no other
protests or objections shall be considered. Any protests may be withdrawn by the owners
making the same, in writing, at any time prior to the conclusion of the public hearing.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 8)
Section 17. 48.090 Majority Protest
A. If there is a written protest filed with the City Clerk by the owners of more than
one- half of the area of the property to be benefitted by the improvement, and sufficient protests
are not withdrawn so as to reduce the area represented to less than one- half of that to be
benefitted, then the proposed proceedings shall be abandoned, and the City Council shall not,
for one year from the filing of that written protest, commence or carry on any proceedings for
the same improvements under the provisions of this chapter.
B. If any majority protest is directed against only a portion of the improvement then
all further proceedings under the provisions of this chapter to construct that portion of the
improvement so protested against shall be barred for a period of one year, but the City Council
may commence new proceedings not including any part of the improvement or acquisition so
protested against. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the City Council within such one-year
period, from commencing and carrying on new proceedings for the construction of a portion of
the improvement so protested against if it finds, by the affirmative vote of four- fifths of its
members, that the owners of more than one- half of the area of the property to be benefitted are
in favor of going forward with such portion of the improvement or acquisition.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 9)
Section 17. 48. 100 Establishing Area of Benefit Confirmation
A. If the City Council finds that a majority protest has not been made, they shall
take the determination required by Section 17. 48. 070 of this chapter and determine whether or
not to establish the area of benefit. The Council shall confirm its decision to establish an area of
benefit by resolution, which shall be recorded with the County Recorder for the County of San
Diego.
B. There are hereby established fees for the purpose of defraying the actual or
estimated cost of constructing the bridge or thoroughfare as described in such resolution as the
Council may adopt pursuant to this section. Such fees, in the area of benefit to which such fees
are apportioned, shall be established as set forth in said resolution. Such apportioned fees
shall be applicable to all property within the area of benefit and shall be payable as a condition
of approval of a final map or as a condition of issuing a building permit for such property or
portions thereof
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 10)
Section 17. 48. 110 Exceptions
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 17. 48. 090, payment of such fees shall not be
required for:
17. 48 (3) Vista 4/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. The use, alteration or enlargement of an existing building or structure or the
erection of one or more buildings or structures accessory thereto, or both, on the same lot or
parcel of land; provided, the total value, as determined by the Director of Building, of all such
alteration, enlargement or construction completed within any one- year period does not exceed
one- half of the current market value as determined by the Director of Building of all existing
buildings on such lot or parcel of land, and the alteration or enlargement of the building is not
such as to change its classification of occupancy as defined by the Uniform Building Code.
B. The following accessory buildings and structures: private garages, children' s
playhouses, radio and television receiving antennas, windmills, silos, tankhouses, shops,
barns, coops and other buildings which are accessory to one-family or two- family dwellings.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 11)
Section 17. 48. 120 Deposit of Fees Collected
Fees paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in a planned bridge facility or major
thoroughfare fund. A fund shall be established for each planned bridge facility project or each
planned major thoroughfare project. If the benefit area is one in which more than one bridge is
required to be constructed, a fund may be so established covering all of the bridge projects in
the benefit area. Moneys in such fund shall be expended solely for the construction or
reimbursement for construction of the improvement serving the area to be benefitted and from
which the fees comprising the fund were collected, or to reimburse the local agency for the cost
of constructing the improvement.
Prior Code 28- 4. 12. 12)
17. 48 (4) Vista 4/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.52
Excavations
Sections:
17. 52. 010 Definitions
17. 52. 020 Fees and Deposits
17. 52. 030 Release of Liability
17. 52. 040 Fees and Deposits - Exemptions
17. 52. 050 Computation of Costs
17. 52. 060 Permits Revocable
17. 52. 070 Denial of Application - Appeal
17. 52. 080 Permit Required
17. 52. 090 Application Required
17. 52. 100 Fees Established by Resolution
17. 52. 110 Deposit or Bond Required
17. 52. 120 Deposit Disposition - Specifications Adopted
17. 52. 130 Minimum Depths Established
17. 52. 140 Barriers and Warning Devices Required
17. 52. 150 Shoring and Support
17. 52. 160 Provision for Nuisance Water Required
17. 52. 170 Disposition of Excavated Material
17. 52. 180 Minimum Inconvenience - Noise - Working Hours
17. 52. 190 Removal and Replacement of Pavement
17. 52. 200 Access to Emergency Facilities
17. 52. 210 Notification of Utility Companies - Relocation
17. 52. 220 Backfill Methods - Testing - Specifications
17. 52. 230 Worksite to be Clean
17. 52. 240 Prosecution and Progress of Work
17. 52. 250 Temporary Paving
17. 52. 260 Emergency Work
17. 52. 270 Monument Protection and Restoration
17. 52. 280 Inspections - Rules and Regulations
17. 52. 290 Substructure Maps Required
Section 17. 52.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section. In all cases, the singular includes the plural, the
present tense includes the future tense, and the word " shall" is mandatory.
Building" or " structure," in addition to the meanings ordinarily ascribed to such
terms, mean any machine, implement, device, tree, derrick, stage or other setting, lumber,
sash or door, structural steel, pipe, dynamo, transformer, generator, object or thing having a
width of more than eight feet, other than any implement of husbandry or any special mobile
equipment as defined in the State Vehicle Code, having a width of ten feet or less. Such term
also includes a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load
exceeding the maximum permitted by the State Vehicle Code.
Commercial driveway" means a driveway which is not a " residential driveway" as
defined in this section.
Driveway" means a commercial driveway.
17. 52 ( l) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Excavation" means any cavity, cut, trench or hole created for the purpose of installing,
repairing, inspecting or constructing any substructure, foundation, pavement or other manmade
work within a public right- of-way.
Facility" means a manmade object occupying a position within a public or private rightof-
way, including but not limited to, poles and towers, cables, wires, ducts, pipes, vaults and
manholes.
Highway" or " street" mean any public highway, public street, public way or public
place in the city either owned by the City or dedicated to public use.
Moving contractor" means any person who for himself or for another moves or
causes to be moved any building or structure over, upon, along or across any highway.
Person" means an individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation or association
engaged in business or activity which requires any permit, permission or acquiescence by the
City.
Public place" means any road, walkway, highway, street or open space dedicated by
easement deed, grant deed or other instrument for public purposes.
Residential driveway" means any driveway serving any property which is used solely
for residential purposes, including farms or ranches which are not used as retail outlets for the
products of husbandry.
Substructure" means any underground facility.
Utility" means a company supplying services or products through a system of facilities
or substructures; also the facilities or substructures which deliver such services or products.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 1)
Section 17.52.020 Fees and Deposits
Every applicant for a permit or license required by this chapter shall, at the time of
making application for the permit or license, pay the fees and make any deposits required for
such permit or license. Fees may be established by resolution of the City Council and changed
or amended from time to time as deemed appropriate by the City Council.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 2)
Section 17. 52.030 Release of Liability
On each application filed pursuant to this chapter the applicant shall sign a statement
that he agrees to preserve and hold harmless the City and each officer and employee thereof
from any liability or responsibility for any accident, loss or damage happening or occurring as a
proximate result of the applicant' s negligence or the negligence of the applicant' s agents,
servants, employees or contractors in the design or performance of any work undertaken under
any permit or license granted pursuant to such application.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 3)
Section 17. 52.040 Fees and Deposits - Exemptions
If the United States, this state, any county, any municipal corporation, school district,
utility, other public district or public body files with the City Engineer a written guarantee of
payment of all costs for which they may become liable to the City, then neither an issuance fee
nor deposit is required from such organization.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 3)
17. 52 (2) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 52.050 Computation of Costs
Whenever in the provisions of this chapter any costs are to be charged any permittee,
and no other method or amount is specified therefore by resolution of the City Council, such
costs are the actual costs, including the proportionate parts of salaries, fringe benefits,
overhead, materials and any other identifiable costs attributable to the permit or license.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 5)
Section 17. 52.060 Permits Revocable
Any permit issued by the City Engineer under any of the provisions of this chapter may
be revoked, or the conditions to which it has been made subject may be amended, modified or
changed, if the City Engineer deems such change, modification or withdrawal necessary for the
protection of the highways, streets or public places of the City, to prevent undue interference
with traffic, or to protect persons or property within or adjacent to such places from damage or
danger. Notification shall be made by the City Engineer either by mailing written notice to the
permittee at the address upon the application for permit or by making personal service of such
written notice upon the permittee. The revocation, change or amendment shall be effective
either 24 hours after such notice is deposited in the United States mail or immediately upon
completion of personal service.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 5)
Section 17. 52.070 Denial of Application - Appeal
Where an application is filed as required by this chapter and the permit applied for is
denied by the City Engineer, or granted by him subject to terms or conditions to which the
applicant objects, the applicant may appeal to the City Council. The City Council shall consider
in hearing the appeal the reasons why the City Engineer denied the permit or imposed such
conditions. Thereafter, subject to the requirements of this chapter, the City Council may grant or
deny the appeal or may grant subject to such limitations as they deem necessary for the
protection of streets or to prevent undue interference with traffic or to protect both persons and
property from damage and danger. The failure of the City Engineer to act on an application for
permit within ten days after the filing thereof shall constitute a denial of such application for the
purposes of this section. The decision of the City Council on any appeal shall be final.
Prior Code 27- 2. 1. 7)
Section 17. 52.080 Permit Required
No person shall make any excavation or fill any excavation in any public place or
affecting lateral support of such public place without first obtaining a permit to do so from the
City Engineer, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit to make an excavation or
trench, or fill in a public place shall be issued except as provided in this chapter. The City
Engineer may issue an annual blanket permit for the purpose of placing, replacing or repairing
any facility in a public place where the opening or excavation does not exceed three feet in
width and four feet in length and other miscellaneous excavations approved by the City
Engineer to the following:
A. A public utility regulated by the state public utilities commission;
B. A person holding a franchise from the City;
C. A special district organized under and governed by the statutes of the State of
California.
Prior Code 27. 3. 1. 1)
17. 52 (3) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 52.090 Application Required
No excavation permit shall be issued unless a written application, on a form provided by
the City Engineer, is submitted to the City Engineer. The written application shall state the
following:
A. The name, address and principal place of business of the applicant;
B. The authority of applicant to occupy the public place for which the permit is
sought;
C. The location and dimensions of the installation or removal and the approximate
size of the excavation to be made;
D. The purpose of the facility;
E. The approximate starting and completion dates of such work, including backfilling
such excavation and removing all obstructions, material and debris, and restoring the surface
over the excavation to its original condition or better;
F. The City Engineer may establish special conditions or may adjust and modify
standard conditions if necessary to preserve and protect the safety and convenience of the
travelling public or the public interest, and also may cancel the permit for good and sufficient
cause.
Prior Code 27- 3. 1. 2)
Section 17. 52. 100 Fees Established by Resolution
A permit fee shall be charged for each excavation permit issued by the City Engineer.
Such fee shall be established by the City Council by resolution and may, from time to time, be
modified or changed as circumstances warrant.
Prior Code 27- 3. 1. 3)
Section 17. 52.110 Deposit or Bond Required
A. Before an excavation permit, as provided in this chapter, is issued, the applicant
shall deposit with the City Engineer a sum estimated to be the cost of restoring the public place
to its previous condition.
B. Public utilities regulated by the state public utilities commission, persons or
utilities holding a franchise from the City, City departments and other governmental agencies
may be relieved of the obligation of submitting such a bond by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27- 3. 1. 4)
Section 17. 52. 120 Deposit Disposition - Specifications Adopted
Deposits as required under this chapter shall be a guaranteed security acceptable to the
City Engineer.
A. The application for an excavation permit to perform excavation work under this
chapter shall be accompanied by a deposit, made to the City Engineer for deposit with the
Finance Officer of the City in accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the
City Council. Any such deposit made under the provisions of this section shall serve as security
for the repair and performance of work necessary to restore the public place to the condition that
existed prior to the excavation if the permittee fails to make the necessary repairs or to complete
the work under permit.
B. Upon the permittee' s completion of the work covered by such permit in
conformity with this chapter and acceptance thereof by the City Engineer, two-thirds of the
deposit shall be promptly refunded by the City Engineer to the permittee, and the balance shall
17. 52 (4) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
be released to the permittee at the end of a 24- month period.
C. Part, or all, of any such deposit may be used to pay the cost of any work the City
is required to perform to restore or maintain the public place as provided in this chapter in the
event the permittee fails to perform such work, in which case the amount released to the
permittee shall be reduced by the amount thus expended.
D. Where excavations are made by persons or utilities operating under a franchise
issued by the City or regulated by the state public utilities commission or utilities operated by
governmental agencies or special districts a permit may be granted without the making of such
a deposit. In such cases, the permittee shall be liable for the actual cost of any work required to
be done by the City in restoring the area covered by such excavations to the condition that
existed prior to the excavation being made. The City Engineer may require such a deposit of a
utility or franchisee if a request for reimbursement rendered under this chapter becomes
delinquent.
E. All such work shall be done in conformance with the latest edition of the
Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction" or according to the plans and
specifications referred to in the permit and, in addition, any special requirements and
specifications which are made a part of the permit. Provisions of this chapter shall take
precedence over any conflicting provisions of the " Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction."
F. The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with the standard specifications or as specified by the City Engineer and no greater
length shall be open for pavement removal, excavation, construction, backfilling, resurfacing or
any other operation without written approval of the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27- 3. 1. 5)
Section 17. 52. 130 Minimum Depths Established
Unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer, the minimum cover over substructures
shall be as follows:
A. In streets and alleys:
1. 24 inches below the established flow line of the nearest gutter; or
2. If a flow line is not established, then the depth shall be a minimum of 30
inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of the traveled way; or
3. Designated elevations approved by the City Engineer.
B. In parkways or parking strips 18 inches below the established parkway grade.
C. In other public places 12 inches below the surface.
Prior Code 27- 3. 2. 1)
Section 17. 52. 140 Barriers and Warning Devices Required
A. It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or upon a
public place to erect and maintain barriers and warning devices necessary for the safety of the
general public.
B. Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the construction
operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or other approved devices shall be
placed to channel traffic, in accordance with the instructions of the City Engineer. All safety
measures and traffic-control precautions shall conform to the current requirements as specified in
the latest edition of the " Manual of Warning Signs, Lights and Devices for Use in Performance of
Work upon Highways," published by the Department of Transportation of the State of California
in accordance with Section 21400 of the State Vehicle Code.
17. 52 (5) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during the
performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions are maintained as nearly normal as
possible to minimize inconvenience to the traveling public and occupants of adjoining property.
Adequate pedestrian walkways shall be maintained. The City Engineer may, by written
approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys for a prescribed period of time.
Prior Code 27- 3. 3. 1)
Section 17. 52. 150 Shoring and Support
The permittee shall at all times preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property
by providing adequate support and taking other necessary measures. The permittee shall shore
up and protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the
course of construction and shall be responsible for all damage to public or private property
resulting from his failure to properly protect and carry out such work.
Prior Code 27- 3. 3. 2)
Section 17. 52. 160 Provision for Nuisance Water Required
The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the full depth of the
adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the face of curbs at gutterline. Where no
gutters exist, at intersecting streets, and at all locations where permitted work is in progress,
adequate provision shall be made for runoff and nuisance water so that no ponding, flooding or
other damage occurs.
Prior Code 27- 3. 3. 3)
Section 17. 52. 170 Disposition of Excavated Material
All excavated material piled adjacent to the trench or in any street shall be maintained in
such a manner as not to endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the
streets, and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using the streets and
adjoining property. The City Engineer may require that excavated material be removed from the
work site. It shall be the permittee' s responsibility to secure any necessary permission and make
all necessary arrangements for any disposal or storage site required.
Prior Code 27. 3. 3. 4)
Section 17. 52. 180 Minimum Inconvenience - Noise - Working Hours
A. Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such manner as
to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and occupants of
neighboring property. In the performance of the excavation work, the permittee shall take
appropriate measures to reduce, to the fullest extent practicable, noise, dust, and unsightly
debris.
B. Between the hours of 10: 00 p.m. and 7: 00 a. m., the permittee shall not use,
except with the express written permission of the City Engineer any tool, appliance or
equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the repose of the occupants of
neighboring properties.
C. No permit shall be issued, nor shall other than emergency work be performed, in
a commercial district between Thanksgiving and New Year' s Day.
Prior Code 27. 3. 3. 5)
17. 52 (6) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 52. 190 Removal and Replacement of Pavement
A. The following conditions apply to the removal and replacement of pavement
surfaces and structural sections:
1. Sections of sidewalk shall be removed to the nearest score line or joint;
2. Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and over breaks
and the restoration shall be treated as part of the main excavation;
3. Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the center line of the trench. Cutouts beyond the normal trench lines shall be either normal
or parallel to the trench;
4. Minimum bituminous pavement section for replacement in streets is three
inches of asphaltic concrete over eight inches of Class III aggregate base or a section equal to
that excavated plus one inch of base and one inch of asphaltic concrete, whichever is greater.
P. C. C. pavements shall be replaced with a thickness equal to that removed plus one inch
except sidewalks, which shall be replaced in kind.
B. The following conditions may also apply to the removal and replacement of
pavement surfaces and may be imposed by the City Engineer or by resolution of the City
Council:
1. Permits to excavate in new streets or newly reconstructed or repaved
streets may carry a surcharge or additional fee if established by resolution of the City Council;
2. Heavy-duty pavement breakers, drop hammers, hoe- rams or similar
equipment may be prohibited by the City Engineer when their use may endanger existing
substructures or other property;
3. Saw-cutting of pavement surfaces may be required by the City Engineer
when the nature of the work or the condition of the street so warrants. When required, the depth
of cut shall be not less than one inch or 25 percent of the paving thickness, whichever is
greater;
4. Boring or other methods to minimize or prevent pavement cutting may be
required by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27. 3. 3. 6)
Section 17. 52.200 Access to Emergency Facilities
All work under this chapter shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere with
access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes or any other emergency facilities.
Prior Code 27. 3. 3. 7)
Section 17. 52.210 Notification of Utility Companies - Relocation
The permittee shall notify the owners of all facilities in the excavation area a minimum of
24 hours prior to excavating. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written permission of the owner. No relocation of an existing facility shall be done except by
the owner. No facility belonging to the City shall be relocated to accommodate the permittee
unless the cost of such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately owned
facilities shall also be borne by the permittee unless other arrangements are made with the owner
thereof. The permittee shall support and protect all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other
apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work. If physical connection to
the existing facility is required for such protection, the permittee shall secure permission and
approval of the owner for the support method proposed. In the event any facility is damaged by
the permittee, including pipe wrappings or coatings, the damage shall be promptly brought to the
attention of the owner and the permittee shall be responsible for the cost of any required repair.
17. 52 (7) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
The permittee shall inform himself as to the horizontal and vertical position of all underground
facilities within the excavation area by exposing such facilities prior to machine digging.
Prior Code 27. 3. 3. 8)
Section 17. 52.220 Backfill Methods - Testing - Specifications
The permittee shall refill the excavation in a manner satisfactory to the City Engineer.
The City Engineer may require soil testing by a firm specializing in that field to verify that the
backfill meets minimum requirements as specified in the " Standard Specifications for Public
Works Construction." The permittee shall bear the cost of any such testing.
Prior Code 27. 3. 4. 1)
Section 17. 52.230 Worksite to be Clean
As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish,
excess earth, rock or other debris resulting from such work. All such cleanup operations shall be
at the expense of the permittee. From time to time, as may be ordered by the City Engineer, and
in any event immediately upon completion of the work, the permittee, at his own expense, shall
clean up and remove all refuse or unused materials of any kind resulting from the work. Upon
failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to clean the work area, the cleaning
may be done at the direction of the City Engineer and the cost charged to the permittee.
Whenever it becomes necessary to excavate through any landscaped area, such area shall be
reestablished in a like manner at the conclusion of the work. All work shall be done in a manner
designed to leave the area clean of earth and debris and in a condition as near as possible to
that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily,
any existing trees or shrubs without first obtaining written consent from the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27. 3. 4. 2)
Section 17. 52.240 Prosecution and Progress of Work
After work is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with diligence all work covered
by the permit. The permittee shall promptly complete all such work and restore the site to a
satisfactory condition so as not to obstruct the public place or travel thereon more than is
reasonably necessary.
Prior Code 27. 3. 4. 3)
Section 17. 52.250 Temporary Paving
Upon completion of the backfilling, temporary pavement material shall be used to
resurface the excavated area, unless otherwise specified. All temporary paving material shall
conform closely enough with the level of the adjoining paved surface and shall be compacted so
that it is hard and smooth enough to be safe for pedestrian travel as well as for vehicular traffic
at the legal rate of speed. The permittee shall be responsible for maintaining the temporary
pavement and for all barriers and lights until permanent paving is completed. Permanent
resurfacing shall be completed within 30 days after temporary paving unless waived in writing
by the City Engineer. The City reserves the right to place permanent paving by its own forces at
the expense of the permittee.
Prior Code 27. 3. 4. 4)
17. 52 (8) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 52.260 Emergency Work
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such excavations as
may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the location of trouble in conduit
or pipe, or for making repairs, provided that the person making such excavation shall apply to
the City Engineer for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
Prior Code 27. 3. 5. 1)
Section 17. 52.270 Monument Protection and Restoration
Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any street or
property subdivision, or a survey reference point, or a permanent survey benchmark, shall not
be removed or disturbed without first obtaining written permission from the City Engineer.
Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points or benchmarks shall only
be granted upon condition that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses
and costs incident to the proper replacement thereof.
Prior Code 27. 3. 5. 2)
Section 17. 52.280 Inspections - Rules and Regulations
The City Engineer shall cause such inspections as are necessary in the enforcement of
this chapter to be made, and shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced
such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter.
Prior Code 27. 3. 5. 3)
Section 17. 52.290 Substructure Maps Required
Every person owning, using, controlling or having an interest in substructures under the
surface of any public place shall keep on file appropriate plans and as- built drawings to show
locations of such facilities.
Prior Code 27. 3. 5. 4)
17. 52 (9) Vista 4/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 56
Grading and Erosion Control
Sections:
17. 56.010 Purpose
17. 56.020 Scope
17. 56.030 Interpretation
17. 56.040 Definitions
17. 56.050 Hazards
17. 56.060 Permit Requirements
17. 56.070 Permit Application, Plans, Specification and Reports Required
17. 56.080 Denial of Permit
17. 56.090 Permit Issuance
17. 56. 100 Permit Authorization
17. 56. 110 Other Permit Requirements
17. 56. 120 Limitations
17. 56. 130 Conditions of Approval
17. 56. 140 Liability
17. 56. 150 Protection of Utilities
17. 56. 160 Protection of Adjacent Property
17. 56. 170 Maintenance of Protective Devices
17. 56. 180 General and Minor Grading Requirements During Construction
17. 56. 190 Engineered Grading Requirements During Construction
17. 56.200 Notification of Completion
17. 56.210 Safety Precautions
17. 56.220 Responsibility for Compliance with Plans and Requirements
17. 56.230 Plan Checking Fees
17. 56.240 Review of Geotechnical Reports Fee
17. 56.250 Grading Permit Fee
17. 56.260 Guarantees
17. 56.270 Erosion Control Security
17. 56.280 Design Standards - Cuts and Excavations
17. 56.290 Design Standards - Fill
17. 56.300 Design Standards - Cut-and- Fill Setbacks
17. 56.310 Design Standards - Drainage and Terraces
17. 56.320 Design Standards - Terraces
17. 56.330 Design Standards - Runoff, Erosion and Sediment Control
17. 56.340 Depositing Materials upon Public or Private Property
17. 56.350 Refunds
17. 56.360 Hours of Operation
17. 56.370 Replacement of Engineers
17. 56.380 Prohibitions
17. 56.390 Violation - Penalty
Section 17. 56.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard life, limb, health, property, water quality,
safety and the public welfare, and to implement applicable elements of the Vista General Plan
17. 56 (l) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
by regulating and controlling land disturbance activity and minimizing erosion on public and
private property.
Prior Code 9- 2. 01. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.020 Scope
A. This chapter sets forth rules, regulations and minimum standards to control land
disturbance activity, erosion and sedimentation; requires control of all existing and potential
conditions of accelerated erosion, increased discharge and pollutant discharge; establishes
administrative procedures for issuance of permits; and provides for approval of plans and
inspections during construction and maintenance.
B. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land disturbance activity on public
and private property within the City, and shall be in addition to the applicable zoning district
regulations and other applicable codes, regulations and permits.
Prior Code 9- 2. 01. 02; Ord. No. 2002- 25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and Replaced
4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.030 Interpretation
A. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held
to be minimum requirements, except where they are expressly stated to be maximum
requirements. It is not intended to impair or interfere with any private restrictions placed upon
property by covenant or deed; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes higher
standards or a greater action upon the development of land than are imposed or required by
such private restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
B. Whenever any provision of this chapter and any other provisions of law, whether
set forth in this chapter or in any other law, ordinance or resolution, impose overlapping or
contradicting regulations over the development of land, or contain any restrictions covering any
of the same subject matter, that provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards
or requirements shall govern.
Prior Code 9- 2. 01. 03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.040 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms used in this chapter are defined as set
forth in this section:
Accelerated erosion" means the rapid erosion caused by land development activities
that exceeds the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn away. Erosion
includes the movement or loss of soil by the action of water, wind or chemical action. Evidence
of accelerated erosion includes exposed soils, active gullies, rills, sediment deposits or slope
failures caused by human activities.
Access and building envelope" means a delineated area within which all land
disturbance activity for construction of access or building will be confined.
Applicant" means any person, corporation, partnership, association of any type, public
agency or any other legal entity who submits an application for a permit pursuant to this chapter.
Approval" means that the proposed work or completed work conforms to this chapter,
in the opinion of the City Engineer.
17. 56 (2) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
As built" means the approved surface conditions and facilities extant upon completion
of the grading/ construction improvements in conformance with an approved set of plans.
Authorized enforcement staff" means any City employee supervised by an
authorized enforcement official, assigned to duties involving permits and other City approvals,
inspections, and enforcement related to this chapter.
Authorized enforcement official" means the City Manager, or his/ her designee who
is responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
Bedrock" means in- place, solid rock.
Bench" means a relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill is to be
placed.
Best Management Practices (BMPs)" is as defined in Chapter 13. 18 of this code.
Borrow" means earth material acquired from an off site location for use in grading on a
site.
Building Official" means the applicant as defined by Section 203B of the California
Building Code, or a duly authorized representative.
Building permit" means a permit issued by the City, which authorizes the permittee to
construct, erect or alter a structure( s) or building(s) on a specified site.
Certify" or " certification" means a signed and stamped written engineering or
geological opinion concerning the progress and completion of the work, that the specific
inspections and tests required have been performed, and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter and other applicable codes and regulations.
City" means the City of Vista.
City Engineer" means the City Engineer of the City of Vista acting, either directly or
through properly authorized agents, within the scope of the particular duties delegated to that
person.
Civil Engineer" means a professional engineer registered in the State of California to
practice in the field of Civil Engineering.
Civil Engineering" means the application of the knowledge of the forces of nature,
principles of mechanics and the properties of materials to the evaluation, design and
construction of civil works.
Clearing" is the removal of vegetation and debris down to bare soil by any method.
Compaction" means the densification of a soil or rock fill by mechanical or other
acceptable procedures.
Competent material" means earth material capable of withstanding the loads which
are to be imposed upon it without failure or detrimental settlement, as certified by the permittee.
Contour rounding" means the rounding of cut and fill slopes in the horizontal plane to
blend with existing contours or to provide horizontal variation, to eliminate the artificial
appearance of manufactured slopes.
Critical Coarse Sediment Yield Area" means a geologic land unit with coarse-grained
geological material and high relative sediment production, where the sediment produced is
critical to the receiving stream ( i. e., a source of bed material to the receiving stream).
Development permit" means a permit issued for new land use activities, minor land
division, building, grading, land clearing, subdivision, planned unit development and major plan
development.
Director of Community Development" means the Director of Community
Development of the City of Vista acting, either directly or through properly authorized agents,
within the scope of the particular duties delegated to that position.
Drainage course" means a well defined, natural or man made channel which conveys
storm water runoff either year round or intermittently.
Earth material" means any rock, natural soil or fill or any combination thereof.
17. 56 (3) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Engineered grading" means grading consisting of 2, 000 cubic yards or more, or those
projects as required by the City Engineer in accordance with Section 17. 56. 070 ( E).
Engineering Geologist" means a " Registered Certified Engineering Geologist' who
holds a valid registration as a geologist and a valid certification in the specialty under the
provisions of Title 16, Professional and Vocational Regulation.
Engineering geology" means the application of geologic data and principles to
engineering problems dealing with naturally occurring rock and soil, for the purpose of assuring
that geologic factors are recognized and adequately interpreted in engineering practice.
Erosion" means the wearing away of the ground surface by the actions of water, wind,
ice, gravity or a combination thereof.
Erosion Control Specialist or Engineer" means a civil engineer or other specialist as
specifically approved by the City Engineer who is qualified in hydraulics and hydrology and the
preparation of erosion control and grading plans.
Erosion hazard" means the susceptibility of a site to erode, based on soils, condition,
and steepness of a slope, rock type, vegetation and other site factors.
Erosion, sediment and runoff control planning" means the application of the
knowledge of erosion and sediment control principles and practice in the investigation and
evaluation for use in the design of civil works.
Erosion, sediment and runoff control practices" means methods, measures,
devices, structures, vegetative plantings or a combination thereof, designed to control erosion
and sediment; to safely contain or dispose of storm water runoff; and to stabilize soils and
slopes.
Excavation" means the mechanical removal of earth materials.
Established" or " Establishment" as it refers to ( re-) vegetation shall require a
minimum 90 calendar day maintenance period and include removal and replacement of all
plants not thriving after this period. Weed and trash removal is considered part of maintenance.
The maintenance period may be extended at the direction of the City Engineer or Director of
Community Development.
Fill" means the deposit of earth materials by artificial means.
General grading" means grading involving less than 2, 000 cubic yards that is not
defined as minor or engineered grading.
Grade" means the vertical location of the ground surface or the degree of rise or
descent of a slope.
A. " As graded" refers to the final conditions of the site, upon completion of grading
improvements in conformance with an approved set of plans.
B. " Existing grade" means the grade prior to any land disturbance activity or
grading.
C. " Rough grade" refers to the approved final condition of a grading operation in
which the site is in substantial conformance with the approved rough grading plan, and the
elevations of all features are within two tenths of a foot from the elevation shown on the
approved rough grading plan.
Grading" means any excavation, filling, leveling or combination thereof ( excludes
stripping or clearing).
A. " Rough grading" refers to mass grading and reshaping of an existing site as
typically required to create pads suitable for building but does not address all of the components
of precise grading.
B. " Rough Grading Plan" means a scaled drawing showing all proposed rough
grading in conformance with this ordinance and as required by the City Engineer.
C. " Precise grading" or " finish grading" refers to all finish surface grading as
shown on the approved plans to the exact location and elevation of features including, but not
limited to, slopes, berms, slope rounding, earthen lot drainage swales, localized drainage
17. 56 (4) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
systems, hardscape, flowlines, pad and finish floor, driveways and walkways, top and bottom of
wall, top of footings and other precise control points, wall backfill, and associated work as
required by this Grading Ordinance and the City Engineer, and with respect to the location of
any buildings or other separately permitted facilities.
D. " Precise Grading Plan" means a scaled drawing showing all proposed precise
grading in conformance with this ordinance and as required by the City Engineer.
Key" means a designed, compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material
beneath the toe of a proposed fill slope to develop shearing resistance.
Land disturbance activity" is as defined in Chapter 13. 18 of this code.
Landscape Architect" means a person who practices or offers to practice landscape
architecture and who is licensed to do so by the State of California.
Landslide" means a downward and outward movement of soil, sand, gravel, rock or a
combination thereof, and the conditions resulting therefrom.
Major slope" means any constructed slope which is greater than ten feet in vertical
height and is steeper than a slope of five feet horizontal to one foot vertical distance, or any
constructed slope, regardless of height, exceeding a slope ratio of 5: 1 which is exposed to
public view from or across such open areas as roads, canyons, floodplains or similar public
vantage points or open spaces.
Major vegetation" means live vegetation consisting of tree growth with a trunk
diameter of six inches or greater (circumference of 18 and eight tenths inches), measured at two
feet above natural grade.
May" is permissive for compliance.
Maximum Extent Practicable ( MEP)" is the technology- based standard established
by Congress in Clean Water Act (CWA) section 402( p)( 3)( B)( iii) for storm water that operators of
MS4s must meet. Technology- based standards establish the level of pollutant reductions that
dischargers must achieve, typically by treatment or by a combination of source control and
treatment control BMPs. MEP generally emphasizes pollution prevention and source control
BMPs, primarily ( as the first line of defense) in combination with treatment methods serving as a
backup ( additional line of defense). MEP considers economics and is generally, but not
necessarily, less stringent than Best Available Technology ( BAT)
Minor grading" means the proposed grading does not exceed a total of 50 cubic yards
moved, does not create a cut or fill slope greater than five feet in height, and will not necessitate
the construction of any extensive drainage structures or facilities or interfere with any drainage
course. Street improvements, required as a condition of a parcel map or the granting of any
other special permit, shall not be included when calculating the total cubic yards of earth moved,
when done in accordance with an improvement plan approved by the City Engineer.
Minor slope" means any constructed slope not classed as a major slope, with a slope
ratio greater than 2: 1.
Municipal separate storm sewer system" is as defined in Chapter 13. 18 of this code.
MS4" means municipal separate storm sewer system.
Natural terrain ( topography)" means the natural contour of a site before man made
development or as the same exists prior to the undertaking of any new development or
improvement.
One hundred year storm" means a predicted storm in intensity and duration that
would be exceeded on the average only once every 100 years.
Owner" means the person or persons shown in the County Recorder' s Office as owner
of property.
Permittee" means any person undertaking land disturbance activities upon a site
pursuant to a permit granted by the City Engineer. Permittee must be a licensed contractor in
the State of California.
Pollutant" is the same definition as found in Chapter 13. 18 of the Vista Municipal
17. 56 (5) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Code.
Pre- Project" means conditions prior to the work to be completed as part of the permit
for which the applicant is applying.
Post-Project" means conditions after the work has been completed as part of the
permit for which the applicant is applying.
Rainy season" means October 1 st through April 30th.
Riparian zone" means the defined limits of all streams, floodwalls, channels or bodies
of standing water as determined by the City Planner.
Runoff" means the movement of surface water over ground surface.
Sediment" means eroded earth material that is carried or deposited by water, wind,
gravity or ice, and is a major source of water pollution.
Shall" is mandatory.
Site" means a parcel of land or contiguous parcels where land disturbance activity,
including erosion control, clearing, grading or construction, is performed, permitted or proposed.
Slope" means an inclined ground surface, the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. Three to one means that for every three feet
moved horizontally the ground surface will rise or drop one foot. Slope may also be expressed
in percent, degrees, or both, from horizontal.
Soil" means all earth material of whatever origin that overlies bedrock and may include
the decomposed zone of bedrock which can be excavated readily by mechanical equipment.
Soil engineering" means the application of the principles of soil mechanics in the
investigation, evaluation and design of civil works involving the use of earth materials and the
inspection and/ or testing of the construction thereof. The soils engineer shall have proper
laboratory facilities available to perform testing.
Soils Engineer" means a registered civil engineer of the State of California,
specializing in soil mechanics and foundation engineering, which is a science that deals with the
application of the principle of soils mechanics in the investigation and analysis of the
engineering properties of earth material.
State General Construction Stormwater Permit" shall be as defined in Chapter
13. 18 of this code.
Stop Work Order" means an order issued which requires that specifically identified
activity, or all activity, on a site be stopped.
Stormwater" means surface runoff and drainage associated with storm events.
Stormwater Conveyance System" means private and public drainage facilities other
than sanitary sewers within the city by which urban runoff may be conveyed to receiving waters,
and includes, but is not limited to, roads, streets, constructed channels, aqueducts, storm
drains, pipes, street gutters, inlets to storm drains or pipes, or catch basins.
Stormwater Management" shall be as defined in Chapter 13. 18 of this code.
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan" shall be as defined in Chapter 13. 18 of this
code.
Stormwater Quality Management Plan" means a plan that specifies BMPs designed
to adequately eliminate, reduce, or mitigate the impacts of runoff from Standard and Priority
Development Projects ( PDPs).
Stream" means any watercourse, as designated by a solid line or dash and three dots
symbol shown on the largest scale of the United States Geological Survey map most recently
published.
SWPPP" means Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
Ten year storm" means a predicted storm in intensity and duration that would be
exceeded on the average only once every ten years.
Terrace" means a relatively level step constructed in the face of graded slope surface
for draining and maintenance purposes.
17. 56 (6) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Topsoil" means loose, friable, organic and fertile earth materials on top of a soils
profile, usually the "A" horizon.
Vacant land" means land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
Variable slope" means the variation in steepness of a cut and fill slope in either, or a
combination of, the horizontal or vertical plane of the slope.
Vertical slope rounding" means the rounding of the top and toes of cut-and- fill slopes.
Prior Code 9- 02. 01. 04; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2015-23, Amended and Readopted, 12/ 8/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended,
10/ 24/ 17)
Section 17.56.050 Hazards
A. Generally. No person shall cause or allow the persistence of a condition, on any
site, that could cause accelerated erosion. Accelerated erosion shall be prevented and/ or
controlled by the property owner or his agent, by using measures outlined in this chapter as
applicable. Additional measures may be necessary and may be specifically required by the City
Engineer when work is on geologically unstable areas, 25 percent or steeper slopes, or on soils
with a severe erosion hazard rating by a USDA soil survey.
B. Hazardous Conditions. Whenever the City Engineer determines that any existing
excavation or embankment, or cut or fill, on private property has become a hazard to life and
limb, or endangers property, or adversely affects the safety, use or stability of a public way or
drainage channel, or causes significant impact on the natural resources of the area, the owner
of the property upon which the hazard is located, or other person or agent in control of said
property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the City Engineer shall, within the period
specified therein, repair or eliminate the hazard and conform with the requirements of this
chapter. Erosion hazard problems shall be eliminated and revegetated if necessary no later than
the three months before the beginning of the next rainy season, unless additional time is
granted by the City Engineer. No permits of any kind shall be issued if the City Engineer
determines that proposed construction work is hazardous to the extent described above, or the
work is subject to a major flood hazard dangerous to life or property, and which hazard cannot
be eliminated, prevented or corrected.
Prior Code 9- 02. 01. 05; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.060 Permit Requirements
Except for the activities described herein below, no person shall do or cause to be done
any land disturbance activity within the city until a permit authorizing such work has been issued
by the City Engineer to the owner of the property, or the owner's agent, where authorized in
writing to act in behalf of the owner. Note: the excepted activities herein require implementation
of stormwater management controls as specified in Chapter 13. 18 of the Municipal Code.
A. Emergency Work. Work necessary to preserve life or property, provided,
however, that when emergency work is performed under this section, the person performing it
shall report the pertinent facts relating to the work to the City Engineer within two working days
after commencement of the work, and shall thereafter obtain a permit pursuant to Division 2,
and perform such work as may be determined by the City Engineer to be reasonably necessary
to correct any erosion or conditions with a potential to cause erosion as a result of the
emergency work.
B. Excavations. An excavation which does not exceed 50 cubic yards, which does
not create a cut slope higher than five feet and steeper than two to one ( 2: 1), does not alter a
17. 56 (7) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
drainage course, will not be used for any separately permitted structure, does not occur in a
riparian zone, and does not exceed 11, 000 square feet.
C. Fill. Only those fills which do not involve reshaping or regrading of a site to finish
grade for purpose of development or construction of a structure, which is less than one foot in
depth, placed on a natural terrain slope flatter than five feet horizontal to one foot vertical, does
not exceed 50 cubic yards on any one site, does not alter or obstruct a drainage course, will not
be used for any structure, does not occur in a riparian zone, and does not exceed 11, 000
square feet.
D. Basements and Footings. An excavation below finished grade for basements
and footings of a building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building permit.
This shall not exempt any fill, except as provided under Subsection C of this section, made with
the material from such excavation nor exempt any excavation having an unsupported height
greater than five feet after the completion of such structures.
E. Cemeteries. Cemetery graves.
F. Refuse Disposal. Refuse, individual or community sewage disposal sites
controlled pursuant to other regulations.
G. Wells and Utilities. Excavations for wells, tunnels or utilities.
H. Exploratory Investigations. Excavations under the direction of a permittee or
engineering geologist, where such excavation is to be returned to the original condition within 45
days after the start of work.
I. Government Property. Grading upon property under the control of the United
States of America, State of California, the County of San Diego, city government, or local
agency, when exempted by federal or state law.
J. Agriculture. Clearing, brushing and minor grading for agricultural purposes,
provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the stresses in, or
pressures on, any contiguous property, or alter the orientation of natural watercourses, which
may result in adverse changes on nearby or adjoining property or result in dumping of organic
or hazardous waste not regulated by law. This grading includes, but is not limited to, contour
grading to provide for orchard planting, minor leveling not exceeding three vertical feet of either
excavation or fill for row crops, installation of irrigation systems, and stockpiling of fertilizer or
other amendments.
K. Permitted mining, etc. Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling of
rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay, being done under a permit issued in accordance with
Chapter 15. 16 of this code, provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or
increase the stresses in, or pressures upon, any adjacent or contiguous property, or alter the
orientation of natural watercourses, which may result in adverse changes on adjoining property.
Prior Code 9- 2. 02. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 17. 56.070 Permit Application, Plans, Specification and Reports Required
A. Generally. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application in writing
on a form furnished by the City for that purpose. Prior to issuance of a grading permit, the
applicant shall fulfill all applicable environmental protection requirements.
B. Application. The application for a permit must include all of the following items:
1. Application form.
2. At least two sets of the grading plans.
3. Two sets of a completed Checklist for New Development and
Redevelopment.
4. Two sets of an approved Stormwater Quality Management Plan ( if
applicable).
17. 56 (8) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
5. At least two sets of the soils engineering report, where required.
6. At least two sets of engineering geology report, where required.
7. At least two sets of the hydrology and soil loss report, where required.
8. At least two sets of the work schedule.
9. Application fees.
10. A statement of quantities and estimate of cost based on the City' s current
Cost Estimate Unit Price List; giving the estimated total amount of soil moved as cut,
excavation, fill, remedial, off haul, and borrow including the shrinkage or swell factor. Also,
types of ditches and down drains, the lineal feet and sizes of the various drainage facilities, the
amount of rock to be used for riprap or slope protection, a list of the structures such as
headwalls and energy dissipaters, the lineal feet of fencing, and any pertinent information useful
in determining the extent and value of the proposed work, for bonding purposes.
11. Evidence of submittal of a landscaping and irrigation plan and cost
estimate, when required by this chapter or Chapter 18. 56 of this code.
12. At least two sets of improvement plans showing required on site or off site
construction, where required.
13. Location of any disposal area for materials exported from the site. This
must include two sets of grading plans and any other required reports or exhibit for the
disposal/ import site. Source of any material imported to the site, and evidence that a separate
permit has been issued for the off site work, or that it is exempted from the requirement. If the
grading project includes the movement of earth material to or from the site, in an amount
considered substantial by the City Engineer, the permittee shall submit the haul route for review
and approval by the engineering department. The City Engineer may require alternate routes or
special requirements in consideration of the possible impact on the adjacent community
environment or effect on the public right-of-way itself, which the City Engineer shall prescribe as
a condition of the grading permit. The haul route shall be approved prior to issuance of a
grading permit. The haul route or the following note shall be shown on the grading plan: " This
plan is not an approved grading plan without a haul route plan approved by the City Engineer."
There shall be no additional fee for the plan check of haul route.
14. Two sets of any supplementary material required by the City Engineer.
C. Application Form. The following information is required on the application form:
1. Name, address and telephone number of the applicant, with date of
application.
2. Names, addresses and telephone numbers of any and all contractors,
subcontractors or persons actually doing the land- disturbing and land-filling activities, and their
respective tasks.
3. Name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for the
preparation of the site map and grading plan, erosion and sediment-control plan, soils
engineering, and engineering geology reports.
4. Signature of the owners of the site, or of an authorized representative.
5. Name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to take
corrective action in the event of any emergency. Contact information shall be effective on a 24-
hour, seven day a week basis. The information listed in paragraphs ( 1) through ( 5) of
Subsection C of this section shall be kept current during the lifetime of the permit until the
release of final security.
D. Grading Plan. The grading plan shall be prepared on standard " D" size ( 24" x
36") sheets with the appropriate signature blocks and formats. The minimum font size shall be
0. 1- inch. The minimum plan- view details shall be one inch = 20 feet. The drawing shall not be
crowded and hard to read and shall contain the following information:
1. Existing and proposed topography of the site, taken at a contour interval
sufficiently detailed to define the topography over the entire site. 90 percent of the contours
17. 56 (9) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
shall be plotted within one contour interval of the true location.
2. A minimum of two contour intervals that extend a minimum of 50 feet off
site shall be shown. Spot elevations and ample topography surrounding the site shall be shown
to indicate slopes, drainage courses, conforms, and key features that may be impacted by or
cause impact to the grading activity.
3. Site' s property lines, shown in true location with respect to the plan' s
topographic information.
4. Location and graphic representation of all existing and proposed natural
and man- made drainage facilities including swales and lot drains.
5. Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface drainage devices, walls,
cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be constructed with or as part of the proposed
work, together with a map showing the drainage area and the estimated runoff of the area
served by any drain, and the calculated carrying capacity of such drains.
6. Location and graphic representation of proposed excavations and fills, of
on- site storage of soil and other earth material, and of on- site disposal.
7. Location of existing vegetation types and the location and type of
vegetation to be left undisturbed.
8. Location of proposed final surface runoff, erosion and sediment control
devices.
9. Estimated quantity of soil or earth material, in tons and cubic yards, to be
excavated, filled, stored or otherwise utilized on site.
10. Outline of the methods to be used in clearing vegetation and in storing
and disposing of the cleared vegetative matter.
11. Proposed sequence and schedule of excavation, filling and other landdisturbing
and filling activities, and soil or earth material storage and disposal. The information
furnished with the application may be general in nature, but a detailed schedule shall be
furnished to the City prior to issuing a grading permit.
12. Location of any buildings or structures on the property where the work is
to be performed, and the location of any buildings or structures on land of adjacent owners,
which are within 100 feet of the property or which may be affected by the proposed grading
operations.
13. North arrow, written and graphic scales.
14. Location and type of easements within 20 feet of the site boundary,
together with the available information on the type and location of facilities they contain.
15. The location of existing and proposed underground utilities, vaults, and
other related structures shall include spot elevations at inverts, cleanouts, top of pipe, and at
any other key locations as required to clearly indicate the positions of features likely to be
impacted by the grading operations.
16. A vicinity map, showing the location of the site in relationship to the
surrounding area' s watercourses, water bodies and other geographic features, roads, and other
structures.
17. Name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to take
corrective action in the event of an emergency, including 24- hour contact information for storm
water issues. The information shall be kept current during the lifetime of the permit.
18. Precise grading details or an indication of when separate precise grading
plan( s) are intended to be submitted.
19. Any supplementary material required by the City Engineer.
E. Types of Grading. Grading plans shall address both rough grading and precise
grading activities. The precise grading plan may be incorporated into a rough grading plan or
may be submitted by separate grading plan( s) as may suit the individual project subject to the
discretion of the City Engineer. Grading plans shall be of the following types:
17. 56 ( 10) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Engineered Grading.
a. A civil engineer shall prepare and sign the reports, plans and
specifications required in Subsections C and G of this section and be coordinator and liaison
between other professionals, owners, contractors, and the City Engineer, if the land disturbance
activity affects 2, 000 cubic yards or more.
b. The City Engineer, at his option, may require that subdivisions of
more than four lots, planned developments, special use permits, or other projects likely to cause
major land disturbance activity be processed as engineered grading.
2. General Grading.
a. All grading less than 2, 000 cubic yards and not classified
engineered" or " minor' shall be performed under the general supervision and coordination of
the civil engineer who prepared the grading plans and shall be designated "general grading."
b. For grading of 2, 000 cubic yards or less, the City Engineer may
elect to have the grading performed as either engineered grading or minor grading in lieu of
general grading, if he determines conditions warrant.
C. Soils inspection and testing by a testing agency approved by the
City shall be required for general grading. The testing agency' s responsibility shall include, but
need not be limited to, approval concerning the inspection of cleared areas and benches to
receive fill and the compaction of fills, and the preparation of a final report.
3. Minor Grading.
a. Where the proposed grading meets the definition of minor grading,
the City Engineer may accept the application therefore, and may grant an exemption to the
requirement that a civil engineer prepare the grading plan for such grading in accordance with
this chapter.
b. Adequate information shall be provided the City Engineer to
determine the location and extent of the land disturbance activity contemplated and its effect
upon the site. Any request for minor grading may be referred by the City Engineer for
processing as general grading, at his discretion.
C. Any grading performed pursuant to such permit shall be done
under the control of a soils engineer in conformance with the provisions of Section 17. 56. 180 of
this chapter. The reconstruction or reshaping or a pre- certified lot or existing native terrain will
require a soils report be issued at completion of construction to assure no undocumented fills,
compaction of earth berms and swales and slope faces to meet the minimum requirements of
this ordinance and that the site is suitable for its intended use.
d. A site accepted as minor grading shall have improvements and
drainage characteristics that would typically be the case for a site that has had rough grade
released based on approved grading plans, is still in substantial conformance with said plans,
and meets the current requirements of the City grading and erosion control ordinance.
4. Uncontrolled Stockpile. Applications for grading permits involving
uncontrolled stockpiles shall be accompanied by an agreement, in a form approved by the City
Attorney, signed by the property owner and accompanied by a guarantee as set forth in Vista
Development Code Section 17. 56.260. The agreement may be executed by the City Engineer,
or his designee, and subject to the following conditions:
a. The term of the agreement shall not exceed two years or be
extended for more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the agreement.
b. The amount of security to be deposited shall be based on the
estimated cost of grading and stockpiling approved by the City Engineer.
C. The grading and stockpiling shall be designated as uncontrolled
stockpiling and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer.
d. The owner acknowledges that, as an uncontrolled stockpile, the
site is not suitable for a building permit unless special soils analysis and foundation design are
17. 56 ( 11) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
submitted.
e. The grading shall be done and maintained in a safe and sanitary
manner at the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who
shall hold the City harmless with respect thereto.
f. And such other provisions as may be required in the opinion of the
City Engineer to afford protection to the property and the City. The agreement for uncontrolled
stockpiling shall be recorded by the City Clerk in the Office of the County Recorder as an
obligation upon the land involved. The notice shall remain in effect until a release of the
agreement is filed by the City Engineer.
F. Improvement Plan. The improvement plan shall contain all the following
information:
1. Site' s property lines, shown in true location with respect to the plan' s
topographic information.
2. Location and graphic representation of all existing and proposed natural
and man- made drainage facilities.
3. Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface improvements, together with
any intermediate and permanent traffic controls as may be required.
4. Proposed sequence and schedule of construction.
5. Location of any buildings or structures on the property where the work is
to be performed, and the location of any buildings or structures on land of adjacent owners,
which are within 100 feet of the property or which may be affected by the proposed grading
operations.
6. North arrow, written and graphic scales.
7. Location and type of easements within 20 feet of the site boundary,
together with the available information on the type and location of facilities they contain.
8. Any supplementary material required by the City Engineer.
9. A vicinity map, showing the location of the site in relationship to the
surrounding area' s watercourses, water bodies and other significant geographic features, and
roads and other significant structures.
10. Name, address and telephone number of a person authorized to take
corrective action in the event of an emergency, including 24- hour contact information for
stormwater issues. The information shall be kept current during the lifetime of the permit.
G. Required Reports. For all projects which will involve engineered grading, or
when otherwise required by the City Engineer, each application for a grading permit shall be
accompanied by the following reports, unless specifically waived by the City Engineer:
1. Civil engineering report. The civil engineering report, when required, shall
include, but not be limited to:
a. The hydrology and hydraulic calculations that serve as the basis
for the design of proposed drainage facilities to convey the 100 year storm event without
flooding, as the basis for the sizing of BMPs to treat the 24- hour 85th percentile volume or peak
flow rate, calculations and analysis to comply with the most recent Stormwater Standards
Manual, and any other pertinent calculations. The report shall clearly demonstrate predevelopment,
during construction, and post-development discharge, velocity, and erosion
potential both on- site and off-site which includes calculation of flow rates and duration for the
site. Sheet flow and soil loss calculations should be based upon a ten year storm and reflect
the Universal Soil Loss Equations and Factors, specific to the area to be graded, developed by
the U. S. Soil Conservation Service. Any increases in discharge, velocity, or erosion potential
due to project shall be minimized, quantified, justified, and mitigated to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer.
b. Inspection and approval as to establishment of lines and grades,
17. 56 ( 12) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
design criteria for corrective measures, including the existing or required safe storm drainage
capacity outlet of channels, both on- site and off-site.
C. Opinions and recommendations covering adequacy of site to be
developed by the proposed grading.
d. A description of the measures to prevent sediment and all other
contaminants from entering the City' s MS4.
2. Soils and geology engineering report. The soils and geology engineering
report, when required, shall contain, but need not be limited to, all the following information:
a. Data regarding the nature, distribution, strength and erodibility of
existing soils.
b. Data regarding the identification of the import soil location and
testing of approved soil, nature, distribution, strength and erodibility of soil to be placed on the
site, if any.
C. Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures.
d. Conclusions and recommended designs for interim soil
stabilization devices and measures, and for permanent soil stabilization after construction is
completed.
e. Design criteria for corrective measures, when necessary.
f. Opinions and recommendations covering adequacy of sites to be
developed by the proposed grading.
g. An adequate description of the geology of the site.
h. Conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of
geologic conditions on the proposed grading.
i. Opinions and recommendations coveting the adequacy of sites to
be developed by the proposed grading.
j. Need for subdrains or other underground drainage devices.
k. Evidence of presence or absence of potential Critical Coarse
Sediment Yield areas.
3. Erosion and sediment control plan. An erosion and sediment control plan
shall indicate proposed measures for the control of runoff, erosion and sediment movement.
The erosion and sediment control plan shall include, as a minimum, the measures designed to
meet the standards established in this chapter and in Chapter 13. 18 of the Municipal Code. For
all projects which will involve engineered grading, or when otherwise required by the City
Engineer, the erosion and sediment control plan shall be prepared and signed by a registered
civil engineer licensed to practice in the State of California. No land disturbance activity may
take place on the site prior to approval by the City Engineer of an erosion and sediment control
plan as a component of the approved grading plan. The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
approved erosion and sediment control plan in an obvious and accessible location on the site.
The plan shall include the following:
a. Detailed plans and location of all temporary and permanent
structural and nonstructural erosion and sediment control devices and structures.
b. A delineation and brief description of the measures and practices
to retain sediment on the site.
C. A delineation and brief description of the surface runoff and
erosion control measures and practices to be implemented.
d. A copy of the hydrology and soil loss report contained within the
civil engineering report, which provides the calculations for the design of the surface runoff and
sediment yield.
e. A delineation and brief description of the vegetative practices to
be used, including types of seeds and fertilizer, and their application rates, the type, location
and extent of preexisting and undisturbed vegetation types, and a schedule for irrigation,
17. 56 ( 13) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
maintenance and upkeep. A copy of the landscaping and irrigation plan approved by the City
Planner shall be furnished.
f. The location of all the practices listed above shall be depicted on
the grading plan and shall include measures for all surfaces exposed or expected to be exposed
during grading activities.
g. An itemized estimate of the cost of implementing and maintaining
all erosion and sediment control practices throughout the land disturbance activity.
4. Work schedule. The applicant may be required by the City Engineer to
submit a master work schedule and updates no less than biweekly through the duration of the
grading permit. The schedule shall show the following information in a calendar day format:
a. Proposed grading activities.
b. A proposed schedule for installation of all interim and permanent
erosion and sediment control measures.
C. Proposed phasing of land disturbance activities with permanent
and temporary erosion control for the purposes of controlling erosion while minimizing
temporary landscaping, limiting area under mass grading without temporary erosion controls,
and a proposed schedule for construction of final improvements.
d. Key inspections in conformance with section 17. 56. 190 E of this
code.
e. The date of permit expiration shall be clearly indicated.
5. Incorporation of elements into grading plan. It shall be the responsibility
of the civil engineer who prepared the approved grading plan to incorporate all
recommendations from the following:
a. Civil engineering reports.
b. Soil and Geology Engineering Report.
C. Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
6. Notification of noncompliance. If in the course of fulfilling their
responsibility under this chapter, the civil engineer, licensed land surveyor, the permittee, the
engineering geologist, the erosion control specialist or the testing agency finds that the work is
not being done in conformance with this chapter or the approved grading plans, the
discrepancies shall be reported immediately in writing to the person in charge of the grading
work and to the City Engineer. Recommendations for corrective measures, if necessary, shall
be submitted.
7. Transfer of responsibility for approval. If the civil engineer, licensed land
surveyor, permittee, engineering geologist, erosion control specialist or testing agency of record
is changed during the course of work, the work shall be stopped until the provisions of Section
17. 56.370 of this chapter have been complied with.
8. Final Reports. Upon completion of the rough grading work and at the
final completion of the work, the City Engineer may require the following reports and drawings
and supplements thereto:
a. An as- graded grading plan prepared by the civil engineer,
including original ground surface elevations, as- graded ground surface elevation, lot drainage
patterns and locations, and elevations of all surface and subsurface drainage facilities, and
provide approval that the work was done in accordance with the final approved grading plan.
b. A soil grading report prepared by the permittee, including locations
and elevations of field density tests, summaries of field and laboratory tests and other
substantiating data and comments on any changes made during grading and their effect on the
recommendations made in the soils engineering investigation report, and provide approval as to
the adequacy of the site for the intended use.
C. A geologic grading report prepared by the engineering geologist,
including a final description of the geology of the site, including any new information disclosed
17. 56 ( 14) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
during the grading and the effect of same on recommendations incorporated in the approved
grading plan, and provide approval as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use.
d. An erosion and sediment control report prepared by the erosion
and sediment control specialist, including a final description of the erosion, sediment and runoff
control practices applied on the site, including any new information disclosed during site
development and the effect of same on recommendations incorporated in the approved grading
plan, noting any changes required, and provide approval as to the adequacy of erosion and
sediment controls.
e. The grading contractor shall submit in a form prescribed by the
City Engineer a statement of compliance to such as- built plan.
f. Final approval shall not be given until all work, including
installation of all drainage facilities and protective devices, all erosion and sediment control and
vegetative measures, have been completed in accordance with the approved plans, the
required reports have been submitted and all fees and penalties are paid in full. Said payments
shall specifically include any additional plan checking and inspection fees, and any outstanding
stormwater violations and associated penalties pursuant to the Stormwater Quality Management
Plan.
g. Executed contract or deed restrictions requiring maintenance and
upkeep of final plan runoff and erosion control practices for as long as the City Engineer
determines necessary and as approved in the erosion and sediment control plan.
9. Final Work Schedule. The applicant must submit a final revision of the
master work schedule showing the following information:
a. As constructed grading timeline.
b. As constructed timeline for the installation of all interim and
permanent erosion and sediment control practices.
C. As constructed timeline for construction of final improvements, if
any.
d. As constructed update to phasing schedule as applicable,
including dates intended for obtaining any other separately permitted activities that could affect
future site work.
e. A certification by the civil engineer of record that all engineered
grading, lot drainage and drainage facilities have been completed in substantial conformance
with the approved plans and specifications, the permit and this chapter. In making such
certification, the civil engineer does not assume responsibility for the correctness of the contents
of reports not prepared by him ( e. g. the soil engineer's and engineering geologist's reports
referred to in this section).
H. Waivers. A request for waiver from the provisions of this chapter, the permit
conditions or the plan specifications may be approved, conditionally approved or denied by the
City Engineer. A request for a waiver must state in writing the provision to be varied, the
proposed substitute provision, when it would apply, why it is justified and its advantages.
Request and all supporting documentation is to be stamped and signed by a professional
engineer.
Prior Code 9- 2. 02. 02; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/00; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord.
No. 2008- 13, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. 2015- 23, Amended 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 17. 56.080 Denial of Permit
A. Hazardous Grading. Whenever the City Engineer finds that the work as
proposed by the applicant may endanger any private or public property or interfere with any
existing drainage course in such manner as to cause damage to any adjacent property or result
in the deposition of debris on any public way or create an unreasonable hazard to persons or
17. 56 ( 15) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
property, he may refuse to issue a grading permit. If it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer that the hazard can be essentially eliminated by the construction of retaining
structures, buttress fills, drainage structures or facilities, or by other means, the City Engineer
may issue the grading permit on the condition that such construction work be performed.
B. Geological Hazard. If the land area for which grading is proposed is subject to
geological hazard, the City Engineer may deny a grading permit or may issue it subject to such
conditions as he believes reasonably necessary to eliminate or sufficiently reduce the hazard to
persons or property.
C. Flood Hazard. If the land area for which grading is proposed is subject to flood
hazard as determined by the City Engineer, the plans showing the corrective work proposed to
be done must be approved by the City Engineer prior to the issuance of a grading permit. The
provisions of Chapter 16.48 of this code shall also apply.
D. Site Development Plan, Subdivision or Use Permit. Under the following
circumstances a grading permit for engineered grading shall not be issued until a tentative map
of the subdivision has been approved or a use permit issued, or a site development plan is
approved:
1. If the purpose of the proposed grading as stated in the application is to
prepare the land for subdivision construction in accordance with a site development plan or for
some use for which a use permit is required; or
2. Notwithstanding the purpose of the proposed grading as stated in the
application, if the City Engineer or the applicant finds that the purpose of the proposed grading
is to prepare the land for subdivision or for some use for which a use permit is required.
E. General. A permit shall not be issued if any of the following apply:
1. If the submittal is incomplete;
2. If the plan as submitted does not comply with the provisions of this
chapter, unless a waiver is granted;
3. If the required security is not posted; or
4. If the application contains false information.
Prior Code 9- 2. 02.03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.090 Permit Issuance
A. Minor Grading. Upon payment of the fees, submission and approval of reports
and plans, and the posting of any required guarantees a grading permit will be issues for minor
or precise grading.
B. General and Engineered Grading. Upon payment of the fees, submission of
required plans and reports and posting of any required guarantees and agreements, the City
Engineer shall issue a grading permit on forms provided by the City.
C. Separate Permit. A separate permit shall be required for each site and/ or phase
of the project.
Prior Code 9- 02. 03. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. 2015-23, Amended 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 17.56. 100 Permit Authorization
The issuance of a grading permit shall constitute an authorization to do only that work
which is described or illustrated on the application for the permit, or on the grading plans and
specifications approved by the City Engineer, and the work shall be done in accordance with
any conditions imposed by the City Engineer and in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
17. 56 ( 16) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.02; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 110 Other Permit Requirements
Permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall not relieve the owner of the responsibility
for securing required permits for work to be done which is regulated by any other provisions of
this code or state or federal statutes, rules, or regulations or municipal ordinances as may be
required by other jurisdictional agencies including, but not limited to those of other cities,
counties, states, or nations.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56. 120 Limitations
A. The permittee shall complete all of the work required to be done pursuant to the
grading permit within 90 calendar days, unless a longer time is specified on the permit, the
appropriate additional fees have been paid, and approved by the City.
B. If grading and all other work required pursuant to a permit are not completed
within the time limit specified in Paragraph A above, no further grading shall be done until the
permit has been extended for a period not to exceed 90 days. If a request for extension has not
been received by the City Engineer within 15 days after the termination date, the permit shall
expire. To renew a permit in substantial conformance with a permit that has expired, there must
be a new application and payment of fees based upon the hourly rate and hourly estimate of
effort for any additional checking and inspection as approved by the City Engineer. Plans may
be revised and/ or rechecked by the City. In the event that either more than six months has
elapsed from the date of expiration of the permit or, in the opinion of the City Engineer,
substantial changes have been made or are required in the plan or grading concept, the
submittal shall be treated as a new application.
C. In the event that any of the following have occurred involving an issued grading
permit or an application for a grading permit, the permit or application shall be deemed to have
expired and be treated in the same manner as an expired permit, with all fees paid being
forfeited, unless additional time is granted by the City Engineer. More than 90 calendar days
have expired since:
1. The return of check prints to the applicant for additions or corrections.
2. A request of the applicant for additional information.
3. A request of the applicant for the posting of bonds or guarantees.
4. The commencement date as shown on the application or permit, if no
date is shown, the date of issuance of the permit.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.04; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 130 Conditions of Approval
In granting any permit pursuant to this chapter, the City Engineer may impose such
conditions as may be reasonably necessary to prevent a possible creation of a nuisance or
unreasonable hazard or the elimination of a nuisance or hazard to persons or to public or
private property, and he may modify or add conditions to any valid permit granted pursuant to
Chapters 17. 56.090 through 17. 56.220, when he finds that such modification or addition is
reasonably necessary to prevent the possible creation of an unreasonable hazard or the
possible elimination of such hazard to persons or to public or private property or the MS4. He
17. 56 ( 17) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
may also impose such conditions as may be reasonably necessary to ensure that the land
disturbance activity shall comply with this chapter, and with any required environmental
measures.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.05; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56. 140 Liability
Neither the issuance of a permit under the provisions of this chapter, nor the compliance
with the provisions hereof or with any conditions imposed by the City Engineer hereunder, shall
relieve any person from any responsibility for damage to persons or property otherwise imposed
by law, nor impose any liability upon the City for damage to persons or property.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.06; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 150 Protection of Utilities
During grading operations, the permittee shall be responsible for the prevention of
damage to any public utilities or services within the limits of grading.
Prior Code 9- 02. 03. 07; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 160 Protection of Adjacent Property
Notwithstanding the minimum standards set forth in Chapters 17. 56.090 through
17. 56.220, the permittee is responsible for the prevention of damage to adjacent property, and
no person shall excavate on land so close to the property line as to endanger any adjoining
public street, sidewalk, alley or any other public or private property, without supporting and
protecting such property from settling, cracking or other damage which might result from such
excavation.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.08; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 170 Maintenance of Protective Devices
The owner of any property on which a fill or excavation has been made pursuant to a
permit granted under the provisions of this chapter, or any other person or agent in control of
such property, shall maintain in good condition and repair all retaining walls, cribbing, drainage
structures, temporary or permanent BMPs pursuant to Chapter 13. 18 of the Municipal Code, or
as determined by the City Engineer as additional practices reasonably necessary to uphold the
intent of the Stormwater Quality Management Plan, or means and other protective devices and
planting shown in the approved plans and specifications, in the as- built plans or as required by
the permit. Facilities dedicated and accepted for use by the public and accepted for such use by
a public agency are exempt.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03.09; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. 2015-23, Amended 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 17. 56. 180 General and Minor Grading Requirements during Construction
The following requirements are applicable to general grading or minor grading:
A. The City Engineer shall cause the work to be inspected to the extent he deems
necessary and shall require inspection of excavations and fills and compaction control by a
17. 56 ( 18) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
permittee. A project requiring inspection in addition to the review of a typical project either due
to rework, unforeseen conditions, or other factors may be subject to additional fees based on an
hourly estimate as determined by the City Engineer.
1. Notification. The permittee shall notify the City Engineer 48 hours prior to
start of the authorized work and also 48 hours prior to any inspection requested by permittee or
permittee' s authorized agent.
2. Right of Entry. The filing of an application for a permit for grading
constitutes a grant of permission for the City Engineer to enter the permit area for the purpose
of administering this chapter from the date of the application to the termination of the erosion
control maintenance period. If necessary, the City Engineer shall be supplied with a key or lock
combination.
B. The City Engineer may require sufficient inspection by the permittee to assure
that the permittee has adequately considered all geologic conditions. These inspections may be
required to include, but need not be limited to, inspection of cut slopes, canyons during clearing
operations for groundwater and earth material conditions, benches prior to placement of fill, and
possible spring locations. Where geologic conditions warrant, the City Engineer may require
periodic geologic reports.
C. Upon completion of the grading, prior to release of any guarantees, two copies of
a wet-signed final report of a permittee, certifying the compaction or acceptability of all fills, shall
be filed with the City Engineer. The reports shall include, but need not be limited to:
1. Inspection of cleared areas and benches prepared to receive fill and
removal of all soil and unsuitable materials.
2. The placement and compaction of fill materials.
3. The bearing capacity of the fill to support structures.
4. The inspection or review of the construction of retaining walls, subdrains,
drainage facilities and devices, buttress fills and other similar measures.
5. Excavation for, and backfilling of, retaining walls.
6. Where potentially expansive soils are present at either cut or fill grade
written recommendations regarding treatment given to, or to be given to, such soils, in addition
to the recommendations given in the preliminary soils reports.
7. A statement that the project has been graded to a condition suitable for its
intended use.
8. Final approval shall not be given until all work, including installation of all
drainage facilities and protective devices, all erosion and sediment control and vegetative
measures, have been completed and are established in accordance with the approved plans
and the required reports have been submitted.
9. Executed contract or deed restrictions requiring maintenance and upkeep
of final plan runoff and erosion control practices for as long as the City Engineer determines
necessary, and as approved in the erosion and sediment control plan.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03. 10; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56. 190 Engineered Grading Requirements during Construction
A. The Civil Engineer who prepares the approved grading plan shall incorporate all
recommendations from the soils engineering and engineering geology reports in the grading
plan. He shall also be responsible for the professional inspection and verification of the grading
within his area of technical specialty. This responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to,
inspection and verification as to the establishment of line, grade and drainage of the
development area. The civil engineer shall also be responsible for the preparation of revised
plans and the submission of as graded plans when required upon completion of the work.
17. 56 ( 19) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Soils engineering and engineering geology reports shall be required as specified
in this chapter. During grading, all necessary reports, compaction data, soil engineering and
engineering geology recommendations shall be submitted to the civil engineer and the City
Engineer. It shall be the responsibility of the civil engineer to revise the plans to reflect any
required changes, subject to approval of the City Engineer.
C. The permittee' s area of responsibility shall include, but not be limited to, the
professional inspection and verification concerning the preparation of ground to receive fills,
testing for required compaction, stability of all finish slopes and buttress fills, where required,
incorporating data supplied by the engineering geologist.
D. The Engineering Geologist's area of responsibility shall include, but need not be
limited to, professional inspection and verification of the adequacy of natural ground for
receiving fills and the stability of cut slopes with respect to geological matters, and the need for
subdrains or other groundwater drainage devices. He shall report his findings to the soil
engineer and the civil engineer for engineering analysis.
E. The City Engineer shall inspect the project at various scheduled states of work
requiring approval and at more frequent intervals necessary to determine that adequate
inspection and testing is being exercised by the professional engineers and that all provisions of
the grading plan, and erosion and sediment control plan, are being implemented.
1. Inspections. At a minimum, the following inspections shall be performed:
a. Pre-grading inspection and on- site meeting.
b. Periodic grading operation progress inspections; excavation and
fill; drainage device installation; installation of siltation and erosion control devices; before,
during and after any heavy rainfall; and completion of rough grading.
C. Final grading inspection to determine compliance with plans and
specifications and establishment of planting.
2. Notification. The permittee shall notify the City Engineer 48 hours prior to
start of the authorized work and also 48 hours prior to any inspection requested by permittee or
permittee' s authorized agent.
3. Right of Entry. The filing of an application for a permit for grading
constitutes a grant of permission for the City Engineer to enter the permit area for the purpose
of administering this chapter from the date of the application to the termination of the erosion
control maintenance period. If necessary, the City Engineer shall be supplied with a key or lock
combination.
F. A notification of noncompliance shall be made to the person in charge of the
grading work and to the City Engineer by the civil engineer, licensed land surveyor, the soil
engineer, the engineering geologist or the testing agency, if it is found during the course of
fulfilling their responsibilities under this chapter, that the work is not being done in conformance
with this chapter or the approved grading plans. Such discrepancies shall be reported
immediately in writing and should contain recommendations for corrective measures, if
necessary.
G. When a notification of noncompliance is received by the City Engineer or when
inspection by the City Engineer reveals that any grading activities are not in compliance with the
provisions of the approved grading or erosion and sediment control plan, or any other provision
of this chapter, he may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any person
engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done. The Permittee shall forthwith stop
such work, except work necessary to remedy the violation, until the corrective measures have
been completed and until authorized by the City Engineer to proceed.
H. Transfers of responsibility for approval shall not be consummated until the
provisions of Section 17. 56.370 of this chapter have been complied with.
I. Revisions to approved plans shall be processed in the same manner as the
original application and may be subject to additional fees based on an hourly estimate as
17. 56 (20) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
determined by the City Engineer.
Exception: The City Engineer, with the concurrence of other concerned agencies,
may approve minor amendments which do not in his opinion increase the cubic yardage moved
or alter the final land form( s).
J. Upon completion of engineered grading work the following reports, drawings and
supplements thereto shall be filed with the City Engineer, unless specifically waived by him in
writing:
1. A certification by the civil engineer of record that all engineered grading,
lot drainage and drainage facilities have been completed in substantial conformance with the
approved plans and specifications, the permit and this chapter. In making such certification, the
civil engineer does not assume responsibility for the correctness of the contents of reports not
prepared by him ( e. g. the soil engineer's and engineering geologist's reports referred to in this
section).
2. An as-graded grading plan prepared by the civil engineer, including
original ground surface elevations, as- graded ground surface elevations, lot drainage patterns,
and locations and elevations of all surface and subsurface drainage facilities, with signed
approval on the plan that the work was done in accordance with the final approved grading plan.
3. A soil grading report prepared by the permittee, including locations and
elevations of field density tests, summaries of field and laboratory tests and other substantiating
data and comments on any changes made during grading and their effect on the
recommendations made in the soil engineering investigation report. He shall provide
certification as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use.
4. A geologic grading report prepared by the engineering geologist,
including a final description of the geology of the site, including any new information disclosed
during the grading and the effect of same on recommendations incorporated in the approved
grading plan. He shall provide certification as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use
as affected by geologic factors.
5. An erosion and sediment control report prepared by the erosion and
sediment control specialist, including a description of the permanent erosion, sediment and
runoff control practices applied on the site, including any new information disclosed during site
development and the effect of same on recommendations incorporated in the approved grading
plan, noting any changes required, and provide approval as to the adequacy of erosion and
sediment controls.
6. Final approval shall not be given until all work, including installation of all
drainage facilities and protective devices, all erosion and sediment control and vegetative
measures, have been completed and are established in accordance with the approved plans
and the required reports have been submitted and are deemed acceptable by the City Engineer.
7. Executed contract or deed restrictions requiring maintenance and upkeep
of final plan runoff and erosion control practices for as long as the City Engineer determines
necessary, and as approved in the erosion and sediment control plan.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03. 11; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.200 Notification of Completion
The permittee or his agent shall notify the City Engineer when the various stages ( rough
grading, finish grading and final completion) of the grading operation are ready for inspection.
Final approval shall not be given until all work, including installation of all drainage facilities and
their protective devices and all erosion control measures, including established landscaping and
its irrigation system, have been completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan
and landscape and irrigation plan, and the required reports have been submitted. Where
17. 56 (21) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
landscape planting for erosion control has been installed, final clearance, i. e., release of security
deposits, shall not be granted until the plantings have become established. The establishment
of such erosion control plantings shall be certified by a landscape architect, horticulturist or
other qualified person and approved by the City Planner.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03. 12; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.210 Safety Precautions
A. If at any stage of the work the City Engineer determines that further grading as
authorized is likely to endanger any public or private property or result in the deposit of debris
on any public way, or interfere with any existing drainage course, the City Engineer may require,
as a condition to allowing the work to be continued, that such reasonable safety precautions be
taken as he considers advisable to avoid such likelihood of danger.
B. In the event the work does not conform to the permit or the plans and
specifications or any instructions of the City Engineer, the permittee or his contractor, after
receipt of written notice to comply from the City Engineer, shall begin to make corrections. Any
notice to comply under this section shall give the permittee or his contractor a reasonable period
of time, not to exceed five days, to begin to make the corrections, unless an imminent hazard
exists, in which case the City Engineer may require that corrective work begin immediately.
Failure to comply within the specified period of time shall be cause for immediate issuance of a
stop work notice, the initiation of action to revoke the permit additional fees, and cause forfeiture
of security in accordance with this chapter. Note: A stop work does not extend the duration of
the grading permit.
C. If the City Engineer finds any existing conditions not as stated in the application,
grading permit or approved plans, he may refuse to approve further work until approval is
obtained for a revised grading plan which will conform to the existing conditions.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03. 13; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56.220 Responsibility for Compliance with Plans and Requirements
A. All permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be presumed to
include the provision that the permittee, his agent, contractors and employees, shall carry out
the proposed work in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, and in compliance
with all the requirements of the permit and this chapter.
B. Notwithstanding the required submittal of statements and review of documents
by design professionals, the permittee shall bear full responsibility for conformance to the
approved plans and grading permit.
Prior Code 9- 2. 03. 14; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56.230 Plan Checking Fees
A. Before accepting a set of plans and specifications for checking, the City Engineer
shall collect a plan checking fee. Separate permits and fees shall apply to retaining walls or
major drainage structures. There shall be no separate charge for standard terrace drains and
similar facilities. The amount of plan checking fee for grading plans shall be as set forth by City
Council resolution.
B. The plan checking fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that
under a valid permit shall be the difference between such fee paid for the original permit and the
17. 56 (22) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
fee shown for the entire project.
Prior Code 9- 2. 04. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.240 Review of Geotechnical Reports Fee
Before accepting a geotechnical report for review, the City Engineer shall collect a report
review fee. A separate fee will be charged for each individual report submitted for review. The
amount of the report review fee shall be as set forth by City Council resolution.
Prior Code 9- 2. 04.02; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.250 Grading Permit Fee
A. A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to the City Engineer as set forth by
resolution of the City Council.
B. The fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a valid
permit shall be the difference between the fee paid for the original permit and the fee shown for
the entire project.
Prior Code 9- 2. 04.03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.260 Guarantees
A. A permit shall not be issued unless:
1. The permittee posts with the City Engineer a bond, in a form prescribed
by the City Attorney, executed by the owner and a corporate surety authorized to do business in
California, as a surety in an amount to cover the cost of the project, including the construction of
drainage and protective devices and any corrective work necessary to remove and eliminate
engineering and geological hazards.
2. The permittee executes an agreement, in a form approved by the City
Attorney, to perform the grading according to the plans and specifications and subject to the
approval of the City Engineer. The City Engineer, or his designee, may execute the agreement
on behalf of the City subject to the following conditions:
a. The term of the agreement shall not exceed two years nor be
extended for no more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the agreement.
b. The amount of the security to be deposited shall be based on the
estimated cost for grading as approved by the City Engineer.
C. The grading shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer.
d. The grading shall be done and maintained in a safe and sanitary
manner at the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who
shall hold the City harmless with respect thereto.
3. In lieu of a surety bond, the applicant may provide a deposit by cash or
check, irrevocable instrument of credit or letter of credit from one or more responsible financial
institutions regulated by federal or state government and pledging that the funds are available
and guaranteed for payment on demand by the City. The form of the instrument of credit or
letter of credit shall be approved by the City Attorney.
4. The City Engineer may reduce the amount of the bond to the extent that
he determines that the hazard or danger created by the work does not justify the full amount.
5. No bond shall be required when the City Engineer determines the
17. 56 (23) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
proposed grading will not adversely affect the subject property or adjacent property or existing
or proposed structures thereon, and will not create, cause or precipitate a geological, flood,
drainage, erosion, siltation, or other adverse environmental impact, if for any reason, the
proposed project or grading is not completed.
6. On development where progressive individual grading projects or several
concurrent projects are being constructed by one owner, a continuing bond or single instrument
of credit may be provided which will cover all such projects; the amount thereon shall be
determined by the City Engineer.
B. Every bond shall require that the permittee shall:
1. Comply with all the provisions of this Code or other applicable laws and
ordinances.
2. Comply with all the terms and conditions of the permit for excavation or fill
to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
3. Complete all of the work contemplated under the permit within the time
limit specified in the permit or complete the work to a safe condition satisfactory to the City
Engineer. The City Engineer may, for sufficient cause, extend the time specified in the permit,
but no such extension shall release the surety of the bond, instrument of credit, letter of credit or
deposit.
C. The term of each bond shall begin upon the date of filing and shall remain in
effect until the completion of the work to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. In the event of
failure to complete the work and failure to comply with all of the conditions and terms of the
permit, the City Engineer may order the work required by the permit to be completed or put in a
safe condition to his satisfaction. The surety executing such bond, deposit, instrument of credit,
or letter of credit shall continue to be firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment
of all necessary costs and expenses that may be incurred or expended by the governing agency
in causing any and all such required work to be done. In the case of a cash deposit, said
deposit, or any unused portion thereof, shall be refunded to the permittee.
D. Whenever the City Engineer finds or determines that a default has occurred in
the performance of any requirement of a condition of a permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter, written notice thereof shall be given to the principal and to the surety named on the
bond. Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof and the period
of time deemed by the City Engineer to be reasonably necessary for the completion of such
work. After receipt of such notice, the surety shall, within the time specified, cause or require
the work to be performed, or failing therein, shall pay over to the City Engineer the estimated
cost of doing the work as set forth in the notice. Upon receipt of such moneys, the City
Engineer shall cause the required work to be performed and completed using public or private
forces, at his option.
E. A substitute bond or letter of credit accompanied by a new agreement may be
filed in lieu of any bond or letter of credit and agreement mentioned in Subsections A through D
of this section, and the City Engineer, or his designee, may accept and execute such bonds or
letters of credit and agreements if it is suitable to ensure completion of the work remaining to be
performed, and in proper form and substance, and the bond or letter of credit and agreement for
which it is substituted may be exonerated if the City Engineer finds that the condition of such
bond or letter of credit and agreement for which a substitute has been filed have been satisfied
and that no default exists as to the performance upon which the bond or letter of credit and
agreement is conditioned.
F. The City Engineer shall require that up to ten percent of any bond be submitted
in cash, in a form immediately available to the City and satisfactory to the City Engineer. The
minimum amount of such deposit shall be $ 1, 000. The cash deposit may be utilized by the City
to ensure that adequate safeguards for the prevention of erosion and sedimentation are in place
when needed or for corrective measures, either on- site or off-site, that are necessary, in the
17. 56 (24) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
opinion of the City Engineer.
Prior Code 9- 1. 05. 01; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/00; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord.
No. 2008- 13, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.270 Erosion Control Security
A. Requirement for Security. The permittee shall:
1. Execute and deliver to the City Engineer erosion control security
agreement and post with the City Engineer erosion control security following approval of a
Stormwater Quality Management Plan and prior to the issuance of any grading permit if the
scheduled date for completion of any grading is during the rainy season ( as defined in this
chapter) or the subject grading period extends through said season. Such agreement shall be
in the form approved by the City Attorney.
2. The City Engineer, or his designee, may execute the erosion control
security agreement subject to the following conditions:
a. The term of the agreement shall not exceed two years or be
extended for more than 12 months from the original expiration date of the agreement.
b. The amount of the security to be deposited shall be based on the
estimated cost of erosion control approved by the City Engineer.
C. The erosion control measures shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the City Engineer.
d. The erosion control measures shall be done and maintained in a
safe and sanitary manner at the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his
successors in interest, who shall hold the City harmless with respect thereto. In those instances
where a scheduled completion date is to be extended into or through the rainy season, the
subject agreement shall be signed and the security posted prior to the granting of any such
extension.
3. The security shall be furnished to the City Engineer and shall guarantee
the following:
a. Compliance with all erosion control standards of this chapter,
Chapter 13. 18, Stormwater Standards Manual Section F, and all other related laws and
ordinances.
b. Compliance with any and all terms and conditions of permittee' s
erosion control plan as approved by the City Engineer.
C. Completion to the satisfaction of the City Engineer of the erosion
control system, in accordance with the erosion control plan as approved by the City Engineer.
d. Completion to the satisfaction of the City Engineer of all
emergency and routine maintenance or where such work is required as a result of erosion from
permittee' s project.
B. Amount and Form of Security. The amount of the security shall be equal to 100
percent of the total estimated cost of the erosion control system. The permittee' s estimate of
such cost shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer. At least 25 percent
of the required security shall be in cash and shall be deposited with the City Engineer. The
remainder of the required security shall be one of the following, at the sole discretion of, and
subject to the approval of, the City Engineer, and in a form approved by the City Attorney:
1. A bond or bonds by one or more corporate sureties authorized to conduct
business in the State of California as sureties.
2. A deposit either with the City or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company, at the option of the City, of money or negotiable bonds of the kind approved for
securing deposits of public moneys.
3. A letter of credit from one or more financial institutions subject to
17. 56 (25) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
regulation by the state or federal government.
C. Failure to Provide Security. If a permittee fails to provide the security required by
this Section, the City Engineer shall revoke the permittee' s grading permit without prior notice to
permittee. Any such revocation shall be in writing. Any grading permit revoked pursuant to this
authority shall not be renewed until the required security has been provided.
D. Utilization of Cash Deposit. The City Engineer may cause certain erosion control
work to be done either by public or private forces under any of the following circumstances, at
the City Engineer's option:
1. Failure of the permittee to commence emergency repair or maintenance
work within 12 hours of receipt of a demand therefore from the City Engineer, or within 12 hours
of the City Engineer' s attempt to communicate such demand therefore from the City Engineer,
or within 12 hours of the City Engineer's attempt to communicate such demand via the
telephone to a person designated for receipt of emergency telephone calls by the applicant. For
purposes of this section, an emergency means the existence of conditions whereby the failure
to expeditiously commence and complete maintenance repairs of an erosion control system or
other type of BMP that may reasonably be expected to cause imminent damage to adjacent or
downstream private or public property, as a result of erosion on the permittee' s property.
2. Failure of the permittee to commence other repair or maintenance work
within five days or other time period specified by the City Engineer of receipt of a demand
therefore from the City Engineer.
3. Failure of the permittee to diligently pursue completion of any required
repair or maintenance work or to complete such work within such reasonable time period as
may be established by the City Engineer.
4. Failure of the permittee, after notice from the City Engineer, to clean up or
repair public streets or other public property where the debris or materials to be cleaned up or
the damage to the property is a result of erosion from the permittee' s project.
E. Permittee Liable for Costs. The permittee shall be liable to the City for the cost of
any work caused to be done by the City Engineer under the provisions of this section. The City
Engineer may withdraw from the permittee' s cash deposit any funds necessary to pay for such
work. If the cost of such work exceeds the balance of permittee' s funds on deposit, the City
Engineer shall cause an invoice to be sent to the permittee, demanding payment of that amount
by which the cost of the work exceeds the permittee' s deposit. If the permittee fails to pay such
amount in full within 30 days from the date of the invoice, the permittee' s grading permit shall be
automatically revoked. Renewal of the grading permit shall not be permitted until the invoice is
paid in full.
F. Restoration of Cash Deposit Balance. The City Engineer shall notify the
permittee of any withdrawal from the permittee' s cash deposit. The permittee shall, within ten
days of the receipt of such notice, deposit with the City Engineer that amount of cash necessary
to bring the permittee' s deposit up to its original balance. If the permittee fails to deposit the
necessary amount within such time period, the permittee' s grading permit shall automatically be
revoked. Renewal of the grading permit shall not be permitted until the necessary deposit is
made.
G. Satisfaction of Monetary Obligations to City a Prerequisite to Further Action. No
final grading inspection shall be permitted until the permittee has fully satisfied all monetary
obligations to the City imposed pursuant to the provisions of this section. Additionally, no further
construction permits, including, but not limited to, building permits, shall be issued and no
occupancy of any building or structure shall be permitted until such obligations are fully
satisfied.
H. Release of Security. On May 1st of each year or upon the end of the rainy
season, whichever occurs later in time, the City Engineer may release any security posted or
deposited pursuant to this section, upon receipt of a written request for such release by the
17. 56 (26) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
permittee. The City Engineer shall be responsible for determining the end of the rainy season if
it occurs after April 30th. He shall base this determination on available meteorological
information. The City Engineer shall not release a permittee' s security if the permittee has an
outstanding monetary obligation to the City incurred pursuant to the provisions of Subsection D
of this section or if cleanup or repair of public streets or other public property for which the
permittee is responsible has not been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
Prior Code 9- 2. 05. 02; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/00; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord.
No. 2008- 13, Repealed and Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. 2015- 23, Amended 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 17. 56.280 Design Standards - Cuts and Excavations
A. General. Unless otherwise recommended in the soils engineering and
engineering geology reports, or both, and approved by the City Engineer, cuts and excavations
shall conform to the provisions of this section.
Exception: In the absence of an approved soils engineering report, these
provisions may be waived by the City Engineer for minor cuts not intended to support structures.
B. Degree of Slope. The degree of slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is
safe for the intended use, but in no case shall it be steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
2: 1), nor shall such slope exceed 20 feet in vertical height without a terrace break unless
excepted therefrom by the following conditions:
1. The project applicant ( property owner) provides a soil engineer's report
and/ or an engineering geologist's report stating that the project site has been investigated and
specifically recommends that a cut slope at a steeper angle will be stable and not create a
hazard to public or private property, or environmental considerations dictate otherwise; and
2. The City Engineer approves such recommendation. The City Engineer
may require specific recommendations from the permittee and/ or engineering geologist to
support any such recommended deviations; and approve the recommendation as submitted,
approve the recommendation subject to specified conditions, or deny the recommendation.
C. Rounding of Slopes. Cut slopes shall be rounded off so as to blend with the
natural terrain.
D. Building Setback. Building setbacks from the top or toe of any cut slope shall not
be less than ten feet unless specifically exempted therefrom by the City Engineer and the
California Building Code. In no case shall a building setback of less than five feet be granted.
E. Stockpiles. Stockpiling of material from trenches and pits will be placed upslope
of the excavation, to be promptly backfilled and compacted into trenches and pits. Excavated
material not needed at the site shall be removed and disposed of as approved by the City
Engineer.
F. Vegetative Protection. All earth cut slopes shall be planted or otherwise
protected from storm runoff erosion within 30 days of the completion of final erosion control and
grading work. Planting shall be irrigated to establish a root system before the rainy season, if
determined necessary by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.290 Design Standards - Fill
A. General. Unless otherwise recommended in the soils engineering or engineering
geology reports, or both, and approved by the City Engineer, fill shall conform to the provisions
of this section.
B. Fill Location. Fill shall not be constructed ( placed) on natural slopes with an
angle steeper than 2: 1, unless the Civil Engineer devises a method of placement which will
17. 56 (27) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
ensure that the fill will remain in place. The toe of the fill shall be no closer than twelve feet
horizontally to the top of an existing or planned cut slope. The area beyond the toe of the fill
shall be sloped for sheet overflow or a protected drain shall be provided.
C. Fill Slopes. Unless otherwise recommended in the soils engineering and/ or
engineering geology reports, or both, and approved by the City Engineer, fill slopes shall
conform to the provisions of this section.
Exception: In the absence of an approved soils engineering report or proxy
reports as specifically approved by the City Engineer, these provisions may be waived or
modified by the City Engineer.
D. Degree of Slope. The degree of slope of fill surfaces shall be no steeper than is
safe for the intended use, but in no case shall it be steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
2: 1), and in the case of projects other than single-family dwellings proposed for a site adjacent
to property zoned and developed for single-family residential use, the slope of the fill adjacent to
such property shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical ( 3: 1), nor shall such slope
exceed 20 feet in vertical height without a terrace break, unless excepted therefrom by the
following conditions:
1. The project applicant ( property owner) provides a soil engineer's report
and/ or an engineering geologist's report stating that the project site has been investigated and
specifically recommends that a fill slope at a steeper angle will be stable and not create a
hazard to public or private property, or environmental considerations dictate otherwise; and
2. The City Engineer approves such recommendation. The City Engineer
may require specific recommendation from the permittee and/ or engineering geologist to
support any such recommended deviations; and approve the recommendation as submitted,
approve the recommendation subject to specified conditions, or deny the recommendation.
E. Rounding of Slopes. Fill slopes shall be rounded off so as to blend with the
natural terrain.
F. Building Setback. Building setbacks from the top or toe of any fill slope shall not
be less than ten feet unless specifically exempted by the City Engineer and the California
Building Code. In no case shall a reduction in a building setback of less than five feet be
granted.
G. Ground Preparation.
1. Natural ground surface over which fills are planned shall first be cleaned
of all trash, vegetation, stumps, debris, noncomplying fill, topsoil and other unsuitable materials,
and shall be scarified prior to the placement of the fill. Where slopes are steeper than 5: 1, a key
not less than ten feet in width shall be dug, as determined by the permittee, into undisturbed,
solid, competent soil or bedrock beneath the toe of the proposed fill slope.
2. Where fill is to be placed over a cut, the bench under the toe of fill shall
be not less than ten feet in width and the cut must be made prior to placement of the fill. Such
shall be accepted by the soil engineer and/ or engineering geologist as suitable foundation for
fill.
H. Permitted Materials. Only material free from tree stumps, detrimental amounts of
organic matter, trash, garbage, sod, peat and similar matter shall be permitted. Rocks larger
than six inches in greatest dimension shall not be used unless the method of placement is
properly devised, continuously inspected and supervised by the City Engineer. In addition, the
following shall also apply:
1. Rocks sized greater than six inches in greatest dimension shall be ten
feet or more below grade, measured vertically, or as recommended by the permittee or
engineering geologist.
2. Rocks shall be placed so as to assure filling of all voids with fine.
3. Topsoil shall be used in the top 12 inch surface layer outside proposed
building footprints or paved areas to aid in planting and landscaping.
17. 56 (28) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
I. Compaction. All fill shall be compacted to a minimum of 90 percent of maximum
density, as determined by the latest adopted ASTM standard test method for laboratory
compaction characteristics of soil using modified effort, and must be submitted for any fill 12
inches or more in depth, where such fill may support the foundation for a structure. A higher
relative dry density or additional compaction test, or both, may be required at any time by the
City Engineer.
J. Vegetative Protection. All earth fill slopes shall be planted or otherwise protected
from storm runoff erosion within 30 days of the completion of final erosion control and grading
work. Planting shall be irrigated to establish a root system before the rainy season, if
determined necessary by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06.02; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.300 Design Standards - Cut-and- Fill Setbacks
A. General. Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soils engineering or
engineering geology report, or both, and shown on the approved grading plan, setbacks shall
conform to this section and be no less than three feet.
B. Minimum Property Setback. The tops and toes of cut and filled slopes shall be
set back from property boundaries and structures as far as necessary for safety of the adjacent
properties and to prevent damage resulting from water runoff by flooding, erosion or sediment
deposition.
C. Stream and Riparian Setback. In areas designated as open space, topsoil, and
toes of cut or fill slopes shall be set back far enough to prevent encroachment of open streams
or floodways or channels or permanent bodies of water to provide and maintain an undisturbed
protective strip between the grading and the stream or riparian corridor.
D. Retaining Walls. Retaining walls when keyed into stable foundations and
capable of sustaining the design loads may be used to reduce the required cut and fill setbacks,
when recommended by the civil engineer or permittee or engineering geologist and approved by
the City Engineer and applicant.
E. Other Restrictions or Minimums. Other requirements may also be increased or
relaxed upon review by the City Engineer, if he finds the deviations consistent with safety and
stability and to provide access for slope maintenance and drainage.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06.03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.310 Design Standards - Drainage and Terraces
A. General. Drainage facilities shall conform to the provisions of this section unless
otherwise indicated on the approved permit and plans. To the greatest extent possible, peak
storm drainage runoff and sediment rates may not exceed predevelopment rates. If rates are
substantially greater than predevelopment rates, a prorated share of the cost of off-site erosion,
sediment and flood control improvements to the principal drainage way may be required to
handle the runoff or peak discharges.
B. Runoff Calculations. The approved plans shall show by table or calculations, or
both, the peak rate of storm runoff both before and after development. To reduce runoff and
sediment, a combination of storage and controlled release of storm water runoff may be
required.
C. Drainage Facilities.
1. Disturbance of drainage ways shall comply with all applicable state and
17. 56 (29) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
federal laws and regulations and shall be kept to a minimum. Existing drainage courses shall
not be obstructed or obliterated without installing mitigating measures that have been approved
by the City Engineer and all other jurisdictional agencies.
2. Grading equipment shall not disturb or cross flowing streams, unless
absolutely necessary, and only with prior approval from the City Engineer.
3. Whenever a grading operation obstructs or impairs the flow of runoff in an
existing drainage course, a culvert, bridge or other suitable drainage facility designed and
acceptable to the City Engineer shall be installed to convey the flow past the point of
impairment. No construction materials or construction by- products shall be discarded in any
drainage way or riparian zone.
4. Drainage facilities shall be culverts, pipe drains, paved, rock or vegetative
channels designed to safely carry existing and potential off-site runoff from a fully developed
area upstream, as well as local on-site surface and subsurface waters, to the nearest adequate
drainage course designated for such purposes by the City Engineer or other appropriate
jurisdiction, or both, as a safe place to discharge such waters. Properly designed energy
dissipaters are required at the point of discharge.
5. Culvert size and industry standard materials shall be used in accordance
with City standard design criteria and as approved by the City Engineer. Minimum diameter
shall be 12 inches.
6. Plan shall show plan and profile of drainage improvements to include, but
not be limited to: invert, slope, length, material, size, type, hydraulic grade line, downstream
capacity, inlet capacity, lining, and special construction notes.
7. Berms, ditches, interceptor drains or swales shall be constructed at the
top of cut-and-filled slopes for protection against water runoff. Interceptor drains above cut
slopes with a minimum drainage area of 14, 500 square feet ( one-third acre) or more shall be
paved with reinforced concrete or an approved equally non- erodible material a minimum of
three inches thick, 12 inches deep and 30 inches wide and shall discharge into down- drains.
Energy dissipater may be required by the City Engineer.
8. At least a two percent or greater grade shall be provided toward approved
storm facilities, either existing or planned, from all building pads, yards, roof drains, driveways
and similar construction. Earthen lot drainage swales less than two percent shall maintain a
minimum slope of one percent or greater toward yard drains. Design shall clearly show that
yard drain failure cannot cause ponding more than one foot deep.
9. Where feasible, all runoff in excess of predevelopment levels shall be
retained on- site. Where on- site retention is not feasible, all runoff should be detained with
detention basins or other runoff collection devices and released in a controlled fashion over nonerodible
surfaces, so that the runoff rate does not exceed the predevelopment level.
10. Where concentrated runoff will occur, it shall be carried in pipe or culvert
conduits or over a non- erodible surface ( paved, rocked or vegetated), with discharge points
clearly shown on the development plans. Where runoff will be discharged to natural ground or
channels, appropriate energy dissipaters shall be installed to prevent erosion at the point of
discharge.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06.04; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.320 Design Standards - Terraces
A. Terraces not less than six feet in width shall be established at not more than 20
feet vertical intervals. For cut or fill slopes greater than 60 feet, and up to 120 feet in vertical
height, one terrace at approximately mid- height shall be not less than 12 feet in width. Terrace
widths and spacing for cut or fill slopes greater than 120 feet in vertical height shall be designed
17. 56 ( 30) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
by a civil engineer and approved by the City Engineer. Suitable access shall be provided to
permit proper grading and maintenance of these terraces. Where only one terrace is required, it
shall be at mid- height.
Exceptions: Variations from the provisions of this subsection may be granted in
the same manner and in accordance with the provisions for the granting of exemptions outlined
in Subsections B and D of Section 17. 56.280.
B. Swales or interceptor pipes or drains, ditches on terraces and on the top of cut
slopes shall be designed to carry water and sediment to safe disposal structures and areas;
shall have a minimum gradient of two percent; must be paved with reinforced concrete or an
approved equally erosion- resistant material not less than three inches in thickness; and shall not
be less than one foot in depth and five feet in width. A maintenance plan shall be required by
the City Engineer.
C. A single run of swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a tributary area
exceeding 14, 500 square feet (one-third acre, projected) without discharging into a down- drain.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06.05; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.330 Design Standards - Runoff, Erosion and Sediment Control
A. Project Design.
1. Design the project to fit the site and to minimize grading. Structures on
slopes exceeding 25 percent that would normally require major grading may be required to
utilize pole, step or other foundations that do not require major excavations or fill.
2. For many projects, access roads and driveways should not cross slopes
greater than 25 percent or require cuts and fills greater than ten feet in height, if alternates are
available.
3. Access and building envelopes or non- buildable areas shall be delineated
on the development plans, so as to keep disturbances out of particularly erodible areas.
4. The faces of cut and fill slopes and the project site shall be prepared and
maintained to control against erosion. Where cut slopes are not subject to erosion due to the
erosion- resistant character of the materials, such protection may be omitted, upon the
recommendation of a permittee or engineering geologist and/ or with the approval of the City
Engineer.
5. Exposed soils and slopes shall be protected to the MEP standard from
erosion by temporary and permanent BMP measures consistent with the Stormwater Standards
Manual. Soil sterilants that last longer than four weeks shall not be used on soils or slopes
which may subsequently need vegetation for erosion and sediment control. As soon as feasible
following completion of each stage of grading and/ or construction, all sites shall be permanently
stabilized by installing all required erosion and sediment control practices to ensure protection
before the normal beginning of the rainy season. Thus, all erosion control measures specified
in this chapter and in the approved erosion control plan shall be in place and maintained at all
times.
6. All streams, floodways, channels, bodies of standing water or other
riparian areas shall be identified and delineated on the development plans, and vegetative
removal, land disturbance activities or other development activities, shall be conducted at a time
and in a manner that will provide and maintain an undisturbed vegetative filter strip. If it is
determined that certain development activities in or near riparian zones would be detrimental,
those activities may be prohibited.
7. Potential Critical Course Sediment Yield Areas shall be evaluated and
delineated prior to commencement of grading activities.
8. The grading and erosion and sediment control plans shall set forth a
17. 56 ( 31) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
schedule for the construction and ongoing maintenance of any required erosion and sediment
control structures.
B. Erosion and Sediment Control.
1. The erosion and sediment control plan shall be prepared and require
predictions of pre- and post-construction surface runoff and sediment yield, and shall contain
measures that are adequate to control runoff to the MEP. All projects are required to comply
with the Stormwater Standards Manual.
2. Sediment shall be retained on- site. Runoff from disturbed areas, as well
as from buildings, driveways and the total site area, shall be detained or filtered by berms,
swales, ditches, vegetated filter strips, catch basins or other means, as necessary to prevent the
escape of sediment from the site. Sediment control devices ( e. g., debris basins, desilting
basins or silt traps) shall be installed prior to, or concurrent with, initial grading operations and
shall be maintained throughout the development process.
3. No earth or organic material shall be deposited or placed where it may be
directly carried into a stream, marsh slough, lagoon or body of standing water.
4. Maintenance and repair of required sediment or siltation basins, or other
permanent BMPs, shall be provided for by the developer. A special bond to ensure adequate
maintenance and repair, in an amount to be determined by the City Engineer, may be required.
The developer must also submit proof of the mechanism under which ongoing long-term
maintenance of all structural BMPs will be conducted.
C. Land Clearing/ Revegetation.
1. Development plans shall indicate the areas where vegetation is to be
removed and replaced within the building and access envelopes. Vegetation removal shall be
limited to that amount necessary for building, access and construction, as shown on the
approved erosion and sediment control plan.
2. No land clearing shall take place prior to approval of the erosion and
sediment control plan. Vegetation removal between October 1st and April 30th shall not
precede subsequent grading or construction activities by more than 15 days.
3. All bare slopes and disturbed areas shall be planted to both temporary
and permanent vegetation as each stage of grading is completed. Temporary, rapid growing
vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be planted on all disturbed areas, and/ or such
areas shall be mulched, while the permanent vegetative cover matures enough to provide
permanent stability.
4. Temporary planting for erosion protection shall be installed at all times
during the rainy season. Such protection shall be maintained for at least one rainy season until
permanent protection is established. The permanent planting shall be well established prior to
release of the performance bond.
5. All disturbed surfaces shall be prepared and maintained to establish
native or naturalized permanent vegetative growth compatible with the soils of the area.
Permanent planting and irrigation shall be performed in accordance with the specifications
contained in the landscaping ordinance. Mulching, fertilizing and an irrigation system shall be
utilized to establish the new permanent vegetation. To promote the regrowth of vegetation, the
topsoil shall be stockpiled and reapplied upon completion of grading on slopes of less than 25
percent, unless waived by the City Engineer. Soil stockpiles and exposed soil shall be
protected against erosion at all times.
6. All cut and fill slopes shall be protected with straw matting or equivalent
as approved by the City Engineer until permanent landscaping coverage has been achieved.
7. Hydroseeding slopes shall only be allowed if slopes are to remain without
permanent landscaping for 12 months or more and a temporary irrigation system is constructed
and implemented.
17. 56 ( 32) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Rainy Season Operations ( October Ist - April 30th). No grading operations shall
be allowed during the rainy season from October 1st through April 30th, unless the contractor
has an approved Stormwater Quality Management Plan with erosion and sediment control plans
which have been approved by the City Engineer, all approved erosion and sediment control
practices and devices have been installed before the onset of the rainy season to protect
against either on- site, adjacent property or downstream erosion and sediment damage, and the
required security has been posted with the City Engineer.
1. During the rainy season, disturbed surfaces not involved in immediate
operations shall be protected by mulching and/ or other effective means of soil protection.
Existing ground cover shall not be cleared more than 15 days prior to actual grading or
construction work.
2. All temporary erosion control measures shall be in place at the end of
each working day. Sufficient erosion control materials ( e. g., mulch, plastic sheeting, gravel
bags, biologs, or other BMPs) shall be kept on- site at all times, to be installed immediately by
the Permittee upon impending rainfall that might be expected to cause accelerated erosion. For
the purpose of this section, " impending rainfall' shall mean a 30 percent chance of precipitation
as predicted by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA). Emergency workers
shall be made available at all times during the rainy season to implement BMPs as necessary.
If precipitation is predicted for a weekend day or holiday, all BMPs must be in place and
implemented prior to the end of the last working day prior to the weekend or non-working
holiday.
3. All erosion and sediment control measures shall be closely inspected and
monitored during the rainy season, and problems shall be corrected promptly. The City
Engineer shall employ the stop work order and cash bond provisions of this chapter to perform
corrective work, if necessary.
4. After each rainstorm, all silt and debris shall be removed from check
berms and desilting basins and the basins pumped dry.
a. After each rainstorm, the performance of the erosion control
system shall be evaluated and revised and repaired as necessary.
5. Land disturbance activity or development operations may be restricted or
temporarily halted during the rainy season and/ or other times whenever the City Engineer
determines that the weather, soil, slope and general site conditions may cause serious
accelerated erosion or sediment damage either on- site or downstream.
E. Dust Control. All graded surfaces and materials, whether filled, excavated,
transported or stockpiled, shall be wetted, protected or contained in such a manner as to reduce
or minimize nuisance from dust or spillage upon adjoining property or streets. Equipment and
materials on the site shall be used in such a manner as to avoid excessive dust.
F. Erosion Control Coordination with Project Installation.
1. All vegetative and/ or structural measures, or both, required to retain
sediment on- site and to safely discharge any accelerated runoff generated by the project, shall
be installed during the first or initial construction phase of the project.
2. Land shall be developed in units of workable size which can be
completed in a single construction season. Erosion and sediment control measures shall be
coordinated with a sequence of grading, construction and development operations and all
necessary erosion control measures shall be put in effect prior to the next commencement of
the next work unit or rainy season.
G. Maintenance of Protective Devices. The owner of any property on which grading
has been performed pursuant to a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter, or any
other person or agent in control of such property, shall maintain in good condition and repair, all
drainage structures, erosion and sediment control devices, vegetation, irrigation systems and
other protective devices shown on the erosion control plans filed with the application for grading
17. 56 ( 33) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
permit and approved as a condition of such permit.
Prior Code 9- 2. 06.06; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord. 2015-23, Amended 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 17. 56.340 Depositing Materials Upon Public or Private Property
A. Where Prohibited. No person shall dump, move or place any earth, sand, gravel,
rock, stone or other graded, filled or excavated material, or leave any bank, slope or other
excavated surface unprotected, so as to cause any of such materials to be deposited upon or to
roll, blow or wash upon or over the premises of another without the express consent of the
owner of each such premises so affected, or upon or over any public property, place or way.
Such consent shall be in writing and in a form acceptable to the City Engineer.
B. Spilling Loads. No person shall, when hauling any earth, sand, gravel, rock,
stone or other excavated material over any place, allow such materials to blow or spill over and
upon such street, alley or place or adjacent private property.
C. Removal of Deposits from Public Places. When, due to a violation of Subsection
A of this section, any earth, sand, gravel, rock, stone or other excavated material is caused to
be deposited upon, or to roll, flow or wash upon, any public place or way, the person
responsible therefore shall cause the same to be removed from such public place or way within
six hours. In the event it is not so removed, the City Engineer shall cause such removal, and
the cost of such removal by the City Engineer shall be paid to the City by the person who failed
to so remove the material.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07. 01; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.350 Refunds
No fee collected pursuant to this chapter shall be refunded, in whole or in part, except as
provided in this section:
A. Grounds for Refund. Whenever the City collects a fee, no part of which is legally
due, the entire fee shall be refundable. Whenever the City collects a fee in excess of the
amount legally due by reason of an error of fact or law, the total amount of the excess shall be
refundable. Whenever the City collects a fee in excess of the amount legally due because, by
reason of a mistake made by the applicant, the permit does not accurately state the true present
intent of the applicant, the total amount of the excess, less five dollars to cover costs, shall be
refundable.
B. Claim for Refund. Whenever a fee or a portion of a fee is refundable pursuant to
this section, the person who paid such fee may submit to the City a claim for refund of money,
setting forth the facts which constitute the basis for a refund. If the basis for the refund is a
mistake made by the applicant, the claim must be accompanied by a revised application
showing the true facts as they existed at the time of the submission of the original application.
C. When Refund Not Payable. No refund shall be made pursuant to this section if a
claim for refund is submitted to the City Council more than one year from the date of payment of
the fee as to which a refund is claimed; nor shall any refund be paid if the total refundable
amount, after deduction of City costs as provided in Subsection A of this section, is less than
50.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07.02; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
17. 56 ( 34) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17.56.360 Hours of Operation
All grading and noise emanating therefrom, including, but not limited to, warming of
equipment motors in residential zones, or within 1, 000 feet of any residential occupancy, hotel,
motel, hospital or similar facility, shall be limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 5: 00 p. m., Monday
through Friday, and the hours of 8: 00 a. m. to 4:00 p. m. on Saturday, excluding Sundays and
holidays, unless other hours are specifically approved by the City Engineer upon receipt of
evidence that an emergency exists which would constitute a hazard to persons or property,
public or private. Approved work after hours or on Saturday will require additional fees to be
paid in full at least 48 hours before work is to be performed.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07.06; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56.370 Replacement of Engineers
The civil engineer, licensed land surveyor, permittee, engineering geologist and testing
agency of record who prepare the grading plan or reports shall be deemed to be in responsible
charge of the work in their areas of competence as defined in the Professional Engineers Act of
the State of California. This responsibility shall continue until the City is notified in writing by the
engineer that he has been replaced and releases the plan or reports. At this time all work on
the project shall be stopped until the replacement has agreed, in writing, to accept the
responsibility within the area of their technical competence for approval upon completion of the
work.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07.06; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17. 56.380 Prohibitions
A. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed as permitting the removal of
topsoil solely for resale, or as permitting quarrying or borrow pit operations of any nature within
the limits, except as provided in Chapter 15. 16 of this code.
B. This chapter shall also not be construed as authorizing any persons to maintain a
private or public nuisance upon their property, and compliance with the provisions of this
chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate such nuisance.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07.03; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
Section 17.56.390 Violation - Penalty
A. Any grading commenced or done contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or
other violation of this chapter, shall be, and the same is declared to be, a public nuisance. Upon
order of the City Council, the City Attorney shall commence necessary proceedings for the
abatement of any such public nuisance, in the manner provided by law. Any failure, refusal or
neglect to obtain a permit as required by this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the fact
that a public nuisance has been committed in connection with any grading commenced or done
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
B. In the event that grading is commenced without a permit, the City Engineer shall
cause such work to be stopped until a permit is obtained. The permit fee, in such instance, shall
then be double that which would normally be required. The payment of such double fee shall
not relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of this chapter and the
17. 56 ( 35) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
performance of the work. Such fee shall not be construed to be a penalty, but for enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter in such cases.
C. In the event that any grading is commenced or done contrary to the provisions of
this chapter or of the grading permit, the City Engineer may cause to be recorded with the
County Recorder a notice of grading violation for the property. The City Engineer shall cause
the notice of grading violation to be removed when the City Engineer determines that the
violation to be removed no longer exists.
D. Each person, firm or corporation who commences or does any grading contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, or otherwise violates the provisions of this chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person, firm or corporation, shall be
deemed a separate violation and shall be punishable in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 18. 82 of this code.
Prior Code 9- 2. 07.04; Ord. No. 2002-25, Amended, 12/ 10/ 02; Ord. No. 2008- 13, Repealed and
Replaced, 4/ 8/ 08)
17. 56 ( 36) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 60
Development Impact Fees
Sections:
17. 60.010 Purpose
17. 60.020 Findings
17. 60.030 Disposition/Allocation of Funds
17. 60.040 Repeal of Portions of Prior Resolutions
17. 60.050 Fee Amounts
17. 60.060 Waiver, Reduction or Reimbursement of Fees - Improvements Constructed
17. 60.070 Waiver or Reduction of Fees - Commercial/ Industrial Revenue - Generating
Developments
17. 60.080 Community Facilities Needs Assessments
17. 60.090 Collection of Fees
17. 60. 100 Application of New Fees
Section 17. 60.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain fees on development projects to
compensate for the impacts which these developments may impose on the City. The fees
established by this chapter are consistent with the requirements of Section 66000 et seq. of the
State Government Code, which requires a " reasonable relationship" between the development
fee and the need for the public facility for which the fee is imposed. The basis of the
development fee is identified in the "Community Facilities Element" of the City General Plan.
Prior Code 31 A- 16)
Section 17. 60.020 Findings
The City Council finds that:
A. The City' s Community Facilities Element, adopted on February 27, 1989,
provides a framework for a growth management strategy, which addresses the extension and
provision of public facilities and services. This chapter is consistent with the Community
Facilities Element of the General Plan.
B. The passage of State Propositions 13 and 4 placed restrictions on public
agencies' revenue raising capabilities.
C. The City' s concern with growth management strategies has focused on two
primary objectives:
1. To secure the necessary funds to provide for new development capital
needs without adding to the burden of existing residents; and
2. To influence the timing of new development and to direct and coordinate
that development to locations within the City that avoid or minimize any adverse environmental,
fiscal, or social impacts to existing or future residents.
D. The methodology established in the " Community Facilities Needs Assessment"
Exhibit A, on file in the Office of the City Clerk) provides a reasonable relationship, as required
by Section 66000 et seq., of the Government Code, between the need for public facilities and
the type of development project on which the fee is imposed.
E. Exhibit B ( on file in the Office of the City Clerk) presents a fee schedule which
represents full cost recovery, in current dollars, of the City' s costs in providing public facilities,
based on the methodology presented in the Community Facilities Needs Assessment.
17. 60 ( l) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
F. Section 17. 60. 050 presents the fee schedule adopted by resolution of the City
Council, representing development fees which are less than those presented in Exhibit B ( on file
in the Office of the City Clerk).
G. The rationale behind adopting the lower fee schedule ( Section 17. 60.050) is as
follows:
1. The City specifically needs to attract and maintain a strong economic
base, and needs to remain competitive with neighboring cities with regard to attracting quality
development; and
2. Other opportunities exist to provide revenue to supplement general
development fee revenue. These opportunities include sales tax generated by commercial
projects, County Proposition " A" ( sales tax based), federal and state grants ( such as FAU
programs), assessment districts, Mello- Roos Districts, and tax increment financing.
Prior Code 31 A- 17)
Section 17. 60.030 Disposition/Allocation of Funds
The sums derived from the collection of the development fees adopted by this chapter
shall be held in trust by the Treasurer of the City and shall be distributed according to the fiscal
and budgetary provisions of the City subject to the following conditions and limitations. The
proceeds from the development fees, including earnings from investments thereof, shall be
used only for the payment of expenses related to the construction of public facilities and
appurtenances as described in the Community Facilities Needs Assessment, Exhibit A to
Ordinance No. 89- 6 ( on file in the Office of the City Clerk). Such expenses shall include the
payment or repayment of design, construction and/ or administrative expenses related thereto.
Prior Code 31 A- 18)
Section 17. 60.040 Repeal of Portions of Prior Resolutions
This chapter supersedes and repeals the following development impact fees, which were
established by previous resolutions or ordinances, including City Council Resolution No. 88- 137:
park development fees, fire protection fees, traffic impact fees, traffic signalization fees, and
public facility fees.
Prior Code 31 A- 19)
Section 17. 60.050 Fee Amounts
The amounts for the following development impact fees shall be set annually by
resolution of the City Council for residential, commercial, and industrial development:
A. Public facilities
B. Parks
C. Traffic signalization
D. Fire protection
E. Traffic thoroughfare
Prior Code 31 A-20; Ord. No. 90- 34, Amended, 9/ 17/ 90)
Section 17. 60.060 Waiver, Reduction or Reimbursement of Fees - Improvements
Constructed
A. To promote orderly development, the public health, safety, and/ or public
convenience, construction of certain public improvements beyond the scope of standard
development requirements may be required by the City. Upon a finding and determination
17. 60 ( 2) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
being made by the City that certain public improvements will be constructed in addition to those
improvements normally required by City standards, and such improvements are public
improvements for which development impact fees are normally paid, a waiver, reduction or
reimbursement of development impact fees may be considered.
B. Reimbursements for developer- contributed community facilities may occur by
City Council approved agreements between developers and the City.
C. In- lieu of improvements being financed through the collection of development
impact fees, public improvements may be provided by the following means: constructed by
property owner or developer, special benefit assessment districts, or other financing
mechanisms approved by the City.
D. The City Manager is authorized to determine when development fees may be
reduced or waived.
Prior Code 31A-21)
Section 17. 60.070 Waiver or Reduction of Fees - Commercial/ Industrial Revenue -
Generating Developments
If the City Council finds and determines that a proposed commercial or industrial
development of substantial magnitude significantly mitigates development impacts through
improvements to the economic base of the City, development impact fees may be waived or
reduced. Such determinations shall be made through policies adopted by the City Council.
Prior Code 31 A-22)
Section 17. 60.080 Community Facilities Needs Assessments
Exhibit A of Ordinance No. 89-6, adopted March 13, 1989, entitled " Community Facilities
Needs Assessments," ( on file in the Office of the City Clerk) is declared to be an appropriate
development plan for infrastructure, as provided for in California Government Code Section
66007, and represents a schedule to be implemented within 20 years, as may be amended by
the City Council from time to time.
Prior Code 31 A-22)
Section 17. 60.090 Collection of Fees
Any development impact fees required by this title shall be paid prior to issuance of a
building permit, or, at the request of the applicant, deferred until all work required for final
inspection has been completed and all department approvals required for final inspection have
been obtained by the applicant. If the applicant chooses to defer the payment of fees to prior to
the request for final inspection, then the amount of the fees shall be based on the fees in effect
at the time of the request for final inspection. In the event that the City fails to collect any or all
fees prior to final inspection, such fees shall remain the obligation of the developer and/ or
property owner.
Prior Code 31 A-24; Ord. No. 2008-25, Amended, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2016- 11, Amended 8/ 23/ 16)
Section 17. 60. 100 Application of New Fees
The fee increases established by Sections 17. 60.010 through 17. 60. 050 shall not apply
to any building permit application submitted and found complete prior to January 1, 1989. A
building permit application for purpose of this section shall not be deemed complete until all
required discretionary actions have been previously approved, and all building permit
submission materials have been accepted by the City.
Prior Code 31 A-25)
17. 60 ( 3) Vista 9/ 23/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 64
Parcel Maps
Sections:
17. 64.010 Conformance with Requirements
17. 64.020 City Engineer Approval
17. 64.030 Land Subject to Inundation
17. 64.040 Street Lines to be Shown on Maps
17. 64.050 Private Road Easements
17. 64.060 Filing of a Portion
17. 64.070 Additional Certificate on Parcel Maps
17. 64.080 Stamping or Printing of Certificates
17. 64.090 Owner's Certificate and Subdivision Guarantee
Section 17. 64.010 Conformance with Requirements
All parcel maps shall conform to the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and this
chapter and also shall conform to the requirements specified in the reports of the Director of
Planning approving or conditionally approving any tentative parcel map unless an appeal is
made to a subdivider for the modification or the recommendation of the Director of Planning, in
which event the maps shall also conform to the requirements as modified by the Planning
Commission or the City Council, and their requirements so imposed. All parcel maps shall be in
the form of and shall contain the data prescribed in the rules and regulations prescribed by the
Director of Planning.
Prior Code 28- 8. 1)
Section 17. 64.020 City Engineer Approval
A. No parcel map shall be filed with the county recorder until such map has been
approved by the City Engineer.
B. The City Engineer is authorized pursuant to Government Code Section 66563 to
accept or reject dedications and offers of dedications that are made by a statement on the map.
Prior Code 28- 8. 2; Ord. No. 2000- 3, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
Section 17. 64.030 Land Subject to Inundation
Lots or portions of lots shown on a parcel map which are subject to inundation as
determined by the City Engineer shall be identified and so labeled.
Prior Code 28- 8. 3)
Section 17. 64.040 Street Lines to be Shown on Maps
If a street which is identified as a collector street, a major street or a prime arterial
highway on the circulation element of the City General Plan is shown on a parcel map and a
center line, right- of-way line, proposed street-widening line or building line has been established
with respect to such highway pursuant to Chapters 12. 04, 16. 56, 17. 52 and 19. 04 through 19. 16
of this code, or pursuant to any provision of this chapter, then every such line shall be shown at
the appropriate location on the parcel map and clearly labeled so as to identify its function.
Prior Code 28- 8. 4)
17. 64 ( l) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 64.050 Private Road Easements
A. In the event a private easement for road purposes is required within the
boundaries of the land to be subdivided pursuant to this chapter, such easement shall be
delineated on the parcel map and such easement as delineated shall be conveyed to
subsequent purchases of the parcels created.
B. Owner shall also execute a private road maintenance agreement on a form
approved by the City Attorney. The City Engineer, or his designee, is authorized to approve and
execute the private road maintenance agreement on behalf of the City and record the same with
the county recorder.
Prior Code 28- 8. 5; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
Section 17. 64.060 Filing of a Portion
A parcel map may not be filed for a portion of an approved tentative parcel map.
Prior Code 28- 8. 6)
Section 17. 64.070 Additional Certificate on Parcel Maps
In addition to the certificates and other material required by the Subdivision Map Act and
this chapter every parcel map shall bear the following certificates:
A. A certificate by the City Engineer that the map conforms with all the provisions of
this chapter and:
1. In the case of a minor subdivision, such map conforms to the approved
tentative parcel map; and
2. In the case of a parcel map for a major subdivision filed pursuant to this
chapter, such map conforms to an approved tentative map.
B. A certificate signed by an officer or employee of the City charged with overseeing
the City' s implementation of CEQA stating the status of the subdivision with regard to CEQA.
Prior Code 28- 8. 7)
Section 17. 64.080 Stamping or Printing of Certificates
The affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments and approvals required or permitted by this
chapter or the Subdivision Map Act to appear upon maps shall be legibly stamped or printed
upon the map with opaque ink in such a manner as will guarantee a permanent record in black
upon the tracing cloth or polyester base film. If ink is used on polyester base film, the ink surface
shall be coated with a suitable substance to assure permanent legibility.
Prior Code 28- 8. 8)
Section 17. 64.090 Owner's Certificate and Subdivision Guarantee
The owner's certificate required by Section 66436 of the Subdivision Map Act shall be
required on all parcel maps. Every parcel map submitted to the City shall require a title
company certificate and report or title company subdivision guarantee, pursuant to Sections
17. 68. 100 and 17. 68. 110, as if it were a final map. All provisions of Sections 17. 68. 100 and
17. 68. 110 shall apply to parcel maps with the following exceptions:
A. All duties of the City Clerk shall be performed by the City Engineer;
B. The City Engineer may waive any or all portions of this section, if he determines
that the information required by this section has been adequately supplied in an alternate form.
Prior Code 28- 8. 9)
17. 64 ( 2) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 68
Final Maps
Sections:
17. 68.010 Conformance with Requirements
17. 68.020 City Council Approval
17. 68.030 Filing Portion of Approved Map
17. 68.040 Required Offer of Dedication
17. 68.050 Grant of Open Space Easement
17. 68.060 Recording
17. 68.070 Condominiums, Community Apartments and Stock Cooperatives
17. 68.080 Final Map Preparation and Filing
17. 68.090 Certificates on Final Maps
17. 68. 100 Title Company Certificate and Report
17. 68. 110 Title Company Subdivision Guarantee
Section 17. 68.010 Conformance with Requirements
All final maps shall conform to the requirements of the Subdivision Map Act and this
chapter and also shall conform to the requirements specified in the action of the City Council
approving or conditionally approving the tentative map. All final maps shall be in the form and
shall contain and be accompanied by the data specified by the rules and regulations approved
by the Director of Planning and the City Council.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 1)
Section 17. 68.020 City Council Approval
No final map shall be filed in the Office of the County Recorder until approved by the City
Council, but such map shall be disapproved only for failure to meet or perform requirements or
conditions which were applicable to the subdivision at the time of approval of the tentative map,
providing that any such disapproval shall be accompanied by a finding identifying the
requirements or conditions which have not been met or performed. The City Council may waive
any failure of the map to meet such requirements and conditions if such failure is a result of a
technical and inadvertent error, which in the determination of the City Council, doesn' t materially
affect the validity of the map.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 2)
Section 17. 68.030 Filing Portion of Approved Map
A final map may be filed for a portion of the land encompassed within an approved
tentative map, provided the City Council has approved such a filing in its approval of the
tentative map.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 3)
Section 17. 68.040 Required Offer of Dedication
As a condition precedent to the approval by the City Council of any final map, all parcels
of land shown thereon and intended for any public use shall be offered for dedication for public
use except those parcels, other than streets, intended for the exclusive use of the lot owners in
the subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 4)
17. 68 ( l) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 68.050 Grant of Open Space Easement
In the event that a grant of an open space easement is to be made over any portion of
the subdivision, the final map shall contain a certificate signed and acknowledged by those
parties having any record title interest in the subdivided land granting such open space
easement and stating the conditions of the grant.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 5)
Section 17. 68.060 Recording
All final maps or parcel maps approved pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act and this
chapter shall be transmitted to the county recorder for filing within ten calendar days of such
approval, and such time may not be extended.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 16)
Section 17. 68.070 Condominiums, Community Apartments and Stock Cooperatives
The City Council shall not approve a final map for a subdivision to be created from a
conversion of a residential real property into a condominium project, a community apartment
project or a stock cooperative unless it finds that:
A. Each of the tenants of the proposed condominium, community apartment project
or stock cooperative project has received written notification of the intention to convert at least
sixty days prior to the filing of a tentative map.
B. There shall be a further finding that each such tenant and each person applying
for the rental of a unit in such residential real property has or will have received all applicable
notices and rights now or hereafter required by the Subdivision Map Act, this chapter and Title
18 of this code.
C. In addition, a finding shall be made that each tenant will or has received ten days
written notification that an application for a public report will be or has been submitted to the
department of real estate and that such report will be available upon request. Written notices to
tenants required by this subsection shall be deemed satisfied if such notices comply with the
legal requirements for service by mail.
D. Each of the tenants of the proposed stock cooperative, condominium or
community apartment project has been given written notification ten days prior to the
approval of a final map for the proposed conversion.
E. Each of the tenants of the proposed condominium, community apartment project
or stock cooperative has or will be given 180 days written notice of intention to convert prior to
termination of tenancy due to the conversion or proposed conversion. Provisions of this
subsection shall not alter or abridge the rights or obligations of parties in performance of their
covenants including, but not limited to, the provisions of services, payment of rent or the
obligations imposed by Sections 1941, 1941. 1 and 1941. 2 of the Civil Code.
F. Each of the tenants of the proposed condominium, community apartment project
or stock cooperative project, has been given notice of the exclusive right to contract for the
purchase of his or her respective unit upon the same terms and conditions that such unit will be
initially offered to the general public or terms more favorable to the tenant. The rights shall run
for a period of not less than 90 days from the date of issuance of the subdivision public report
pursuant to Section 11018. 2 of the Business and Professions Code unless the tenant gives prior
written notice of his or her intention not to exercise that right and a copy has been given to the
Director of Planning. A copy of all such notification and proof of receipt shall be submitted to the
Director of Planning within five days of the date of the notification unless otherwise allowed by
this chapter. Failure to so notify or give proof of notification shall void the final map.
Prior Code 28- 5. 1. 7)
17. 68 ( 2) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 68.080 Final Map Preparation and Filing
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, a final map shall be prepared and filed
pursuant to an approved tentative map for every major subdivision.
Prior Code 28- 5. 2. 1)
Section 17. 68.090 Certificates on Final Maps
In addition to all certificates required by the Subdivision Map Act, all final maps shall
have the following certificates or endorsements:
A. A certificate by the County Treasurer, City Treasurer, City Engineer, City Clerk,
Clerk of the Vista Sanitation District, and the Director of Sanitation and Flood Control, to the
effect that there are no unpaid special assessments or bonds which may be paid in full shown by
the records in their offices against the subdivision or any part thereof;
B. A certificate by the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors that the provisions of
Division 2 of Title 7 of the Government Code have been complied with regarding deposits for
taxes on the property within the subdivision;
C. Approval by the county recorder of the tract number designation of the
subdivision as assigned by the city;
D. Certificate of the County Recorder as to the recordation of the map;
E. Certificate of engineer or surveyor responsible for surveying;
F. A certificate of the City Engineer stating:
1. He has examined the final map,
2. The subdivision as shown is substantially the same as it appeared on the
tentative map, and any approved alterations thereof, and that it conforms to all conditions
of approval of the tentative map,
3. All provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and of any local ordinances
applicable at the time of approval of the tentative map have been complied with, and
4. He is satisfied the map is technically correct;
G. A certificate signed by an officer of the City charged with overseeing the City' s
implementation of CEQA stating the status of the subdivision with regard to CEQA;
H. Other certificates as are appropriate.
Prior Code 28- 5. 3. 1)
Section 17. 68. 100 Title Company Certificate and Report
Every final map submitted to the City Council shall bear the certificate of a qualified title
company that the parties who executed the owner's certificate required by Section 66436 of the
Subdivision Map Act are all the parties having any record title interest in the land subdivided.
Said certificate shall also set forth the names of the parties owning the interests set forth in
Section 66436 of said act together with a description of such interests and the reasons the
parties did not execute the owner' s certificate. The City Clerk shall notify the title company
making such certificate of the date the final map will be transmitted to the County Recorder.
Such notification shall be made at least 48 before said date. The title company shall, on said
date, present to the County Recorder a letter stating that on said date the names of the parties
and the other facts set forth in the title company's certificate were the same as shown by the
certificate.
Prior Code 28- 5. 3. 2)
17. 68 ( 3) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 68. 110 Title Company Subdivision Guarantee
A. In lieu of the title company certificate required by Section 17. 68. 100, there may
be filed with the City Engineer a subdivision guarantee from a qualified title insurance company
which guarantees that the parties named therein are the only parties having any record title
interest in the land subdivided.
B. The owner's certificate required by Section 66436 of the Subdivision Map Act
shall bear the signatures of all parties owning any record title interest in the land subdivided
except those which have been omitted pursuant to Section 66436 of the Subdivision Map Act.
The names of any parties who own interests described in Section 66436 of the Subdivision Map
Act and who have not signed the owner's certificate shall be set forth in the owner' s certificate
together with a description of their respective interests and the reasons why they have not
signed the certificate.
C. The City Clerk shall notify the title company furnishing the subdivision guarantee
of the date the final map will be transmitted to the County Recorder. Such notification shall be
made at least 48 hours before said date. The title company shall, on said date, present to the
County Recorder, pursuant to the requirements of Section 66465 of the Subdivision Map Act, a
letter stating that at the time of filing of the final or parcel map in the Office of the County
Recorder, the parties consenting to such filing are all of the parties having a record title interest
in the real property being subdivided whose signatures are required by Division 2 of Title 7 of
the Government Code, as shown by the records in the Office of the County Recorder.
Prior Code 28- 5. 3. 3)
17. 68 ( 4) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17.72
Vesting Tentative Maps
Sections:
17. 72.010 Citation and Authority
17. 72.020 Purpose and Intent
17. 72.030 Consistency
17. 72.040 Vesting Tentative Map Allowed
17. 72.050 In- Lieu Filing
17. 72.060 Approval, Expiration, and Extension of Time
17. 72.070 Vesting Requirements
17. 72.080 Rights of the Vesting Tentative Map
Section 17. 72.010 Citation and Authority
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Chapter 4. 5 ( commencing
with Section 66498. 1) of Division 2 of Title 7 of the Government Code of the State of California
referred to in this chapter as the Vesting Tentative Map Statute), and may be cited as the
Vesting Tentative Map Ordinance."
Prior Code 28- 13. 1)
Section 17. 72. 020 Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish procedures necessary for the
implementation of the Vesting Tentative Map Statute, and to supplement the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and the subdivision ordinance. Except as otherwise set forth in the
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of the subdivision ordinance shall apply to the Vesting
Tentative Map Ordinance.
Prior Code 28- 13. 2)
Section 17. 72.030 Consistency
No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to a vesting tentative map for any
purpose which is inconsistent with the General Plan and any applicable specific plan or not
permitted by Title 18 of this code or other applicable provisions of this code.
Prior Code 28- 13. 3)
Section 17. 72.040 Vesting Tentative Map Allowed
In lieu of filing a tentative map or tentative parcel map a subdivider may file a " vesting
tentative map or vesting tentative parcel map" as provided for in this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 13. 4; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
Section 17. 72.050 In- Lieu Filing
Any time a major subdivision may be filed, a subdivider may file a vesting tentative map
in lieu of the normal tentative map. Whenever a tentative parcel map may be filed, a vesting
tentative parcel map may be filed in lieu of a tentative map. Said vesting tentative map and
vesting tentative parcel map shall be processed in the same manner as major subdivisions for
17. 72 ( 1) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
vesting tentative map or minor subdivisions for vesting tentative parcel map except as set forth
in this chapter. In addition to the normal requirements as set forth by the City, the following
additional requirements shall be required for vesting tentative maps and vesting tentative parcel
maps:
A. Each vesting tentative map and vesting tentative parcel map shall have
inscribed on it conspicuously in the upper right hand corner the words " Vesting Tentative Map
for Major Subdivision" or "Vesting Tentative Parcel Map for Minor Subdivision."
B. In addition to the tentative map, a site development plan pursuant to Chapter
18. 64 of this code shall be filed concurrently with the vesting tentative map and/ or vesting
tentative parcel map and shall be processed concurrently therewith.
C. The Director of Community Development may prescribe additional requirements
as part of the normal rules and regulations promulgated by the Director of Community
Development with regard to the filing of tentative maps, tentative parcel maps and vesting
tentative maps and vesting tentative parcel maps.
Prior Code 28- 13. 5; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
Section 17. 72.060 Approval, Expiration, and Extension of Time
The vesting tentative parcel map or vesting tentative map shall be approved pursuant to
the normal procedures of a tentative map or tentative parcel map. When such map is approved,
it shall expire if no final map or parcel map is filed within 24 months of the date of said
approval. Time of expiration may be extended for one additional year if applied for within 90
days prior to the expiration. Such extension may be granted by the Director of Community
Development. Should the Director of Community Development deny such extension, the
subdivider may appeal pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150 of this code. No additional time
extension of the tentative map is allowed.
Prior Code 28- 13. 6; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
Section 17. 72.070 Vesting Requirements
Any time a final map or parcel map is recorded for a vesting tentative map or vesting
tentative parcel map, the rights allowed by this chapter shall endure for a period of one year
subsequent to the recording of the final map or parcel map, and such rights may be extended
for one additional year provided a request is filed with the Director of Community Development
within 90 days of expiration of such rights. Should the Director of Community Development
refuse to grant such extension the matter may be appealed pursuant to the Section 18. 04. 150 of
this code. In addition, the rights of the vesting tentative map shall endure for the length of time
a building permit is issued for the project on the site of the vesting tentative map or vesting
tentative parcel map and any extension of such building permit. Should any one of the
aforementioned time periods expire, the rights granted under this chapter shall also expire.
Prior Code 28- 13. 7; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
Section 17. 72.080 Rights of the Vesting Tentative Map
When a vesting tentative map or vesting tentative parcel map is filed and a subsequent
final or parcel map recorded, the subdivider shall have the right to build in accordance with the
approved tentative map and approved site plan with no change in conditions unless such
conditions are changed by virtue of state or federal law. Such rights to build shall extend for the
life of the tentative map and the time period thereafter as set forth in Section 17. 72. 060. In
approving such vesting map and site development plan, the regulations shall be those in effect
on the date the application was found complete.
Prior Code 28- 19. 8; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
17. 72 ( 2) Vista 4/ 27/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 76
Minor Subdivisions
Sections:
17. 76.010 Minor Subdivisions
17. 76.020 Tentative Parcel Map Required
17. 76.030 Application
17. 76.040 Information to be Filed with Tentative Parcel Map
17. 76.050 Grading Plan
17. 76.060 Soils Report
17. 76.070 Department of Health Services Certification
17. 76.080 Replacement Tentative Parcel Map
17. 76.090 Revised Tentative Parcel Map
17. 76. 100 Director of Planning - Duties
17. 76. 110 Assignment of Certain Responsibilities to Director of Planning
17. 76. 120 Action of the Director of Planning
17. 76. 130 Consideration of Tentative Parcel Maps - Notice of Decision
17. 76. 140 Disapproval of Tentative Parcel Map
17. 76. 150 Modification of Regulations
17. 76. 160 Appeal
17. 76. 170 Waiver of Parcel Map
17. 76. 180 Time to File Parcel Map - Extension of Time
17. 76. 190 Requirements
17. 76.200 Dedication Procedure
17. 76.210 Agreement to Improve
17. 76.220 Exemption from Improvements
17. 76.230 Covenant not to Oppose Road Improvement District
17. 76.240 Lien Contract for Improvements
17. 76.250 Monuments and Flagging
Section 17.76.010 Minor Subdivisions
A. No person shall create a minor subdivision except in accordance with a parcel
map approved pursuant to this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act and filed in the Office of the
County Recorder unless such requirement for a parcel map is otherwise waived pursuant to
Section 17. 76. 170.
B. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
1. The conveyance, transfer, creation or establishment of an easement for
streets, sewer, water or gas pipelines and appurtenances or electrical or telephone poles and
lines or conduit and appurtenances;
2. The conveyance or transfer of land or any interest therein to the United
States, state, county, city, school district, special district or public utility.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 1)
Section 17. 76.020 Tentative Parcel Map Required
Any person proposing to create a minor subdivision pursuant to this chapter shall file
with the Director of Planning a tentative parcel map pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
The City Engineer shall not certify a parcel map pursuant to Section 66450 of the Subdivision
17. 76 ( l) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Map Act unless prior thereto a tentative parcel map of the minor subdivision shown thereon
shall have been filed with and approved by the Director of Planning, or on appeal by the
Planning Commission or City Council.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 2)
Section 17. 76.030 Application
The subdivider applying for a minor subdivision shall file an application with the Director
of Planning. The application shall be accompanied by a fee, as set by resolution of the City
Council according to the provisions of Section 17. 08. 130, which will not be refundable, together
with copies of a tentative parcel map as required by the Director of Planning prepared in
accordance with the requirements as set forth in Sections 17. 08. 070 B and 17. 76.040 of this
code.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 3)
Section 17. 76.040 Information to be Filed with Tentative Parcel Map
Such information as may be prescribed by the rules and regulations approved by the
City Council pursuant to Section 17. 08.070 B and such additional information as the Director of
Planning may find necessary with respect to any particular case to implement the provisions of
this chapter, shall accompany the tentative parcel map at the time of submission. In addition, all
tentative parcel maps shall be accompanied by either a negative declaration or a draft
environmental impact report prepared in accordance with rules and procedures adopted by the
City Council pursuant to CEQA.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 4)
Section 17. 76.050 Grading Plan
There shall be filed with each tentative parcel map a grading plan showing graded
building site elevations and grading proposed for the creation of building sites or for construction
or installation of improvements. The grading plan together with the original topographical
contours may both be shown on the tentative parcel map. In the event no such grading is
proposed, a statement to that effect shall be placed on the tentative parcel map.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 5)
Section 17. 76.060 Soils Report
A. A preliminary soils report, prepared by a registered civil engineer and based
upon adequate test borings shall be submitted to the City Engineer for every subdivision with
respect to the subdivision lots and adjoining roads.
B. A preliminary soils report may be waived by the City Engineer provided the City
Engineer finds that due to the knowledge the City has as to the soils qualities of the soils in the
subdivision, no preliminary analysis is necessary.
C. If the City has knowledge of, or the preliminary soils report indicates, the presence
of critically expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not corrected, would lead to
structural defects, a soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required by the City
Engineer. Such soils investigation shall be done by a registered civil engineer, who shall
recommend the corrective action which is likely to prevent structural damage to each structure
proposed to be constructed in the area where such soils problem exists.
D. The advisory agency may approve the subdivision or portion thereof where such
soils problem exists if it determines that the recommended action is likely to prevent structural
17. 76 ( 2) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
damage to each structure to be constructed and a condition to the issuance of any building
permit may require that the approved recommended action be incorporated in the construction
of each structure.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 6)
Section 17. 76.070 Department of Health Services Certification
A tentative parcel map shall not be accepted for processing until such map bears
certification of the Department of Health Services of the County of San Diego that a sanitary
sewer is available to each lot or that it has approved each lot for installation of a private
subsurface sewage disposal system.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 7)
Section 17. 76.080 Replacement Tentative Parcel Map
A replacement tentative parcel map shall be submitted when the Director of Planning
finds that the number or nature of the changes necessary for approval are such that they cannot
be shown clearly or simply on the original tentative parcel map.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 8)
Section 17. 76.090 Revised Tentative Parcel Map
Where a subdivider desires to revise an approved tentative parcel map, he may file with
the Director of Planning, prior to the expiration of the approved tentative parcel map, a revised
tentative parcel map.
Prior Code 28- 6. 1. 9)
Section 17. 76. 100 Director of Planning - Duties
The Director of Planning is authorized and directed to carry out the duties assigned to
him by this chapter including but not limited to the following:
A. Investigate each tentative parcel map filed pursuant to this chapter and
indicate by written report the kind, nature and extent of the improvements required to be
installed on or to serve the land to be subdivided.
B. Within ten days after the filing of a tentative parcel map, the Director of Planning
shall send notice of filing thereof with information about the location, number of units, density
and any other information relevant to school districts to the governing board of any elementary,
high school or unified school district within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision. Such
governing board shall make a written report thereon to the City indicating the impact of the
proposed subdivision and its recommendations within 20 working days after said notice was
mailed or the governing board shall be deemed to have approved the proposed subdivision.
C. Obtain the recommendations of:
1. The City Engineer, Director of Health Services of the County of San
Diego, Director of Sanitation and Flood Control of the County of San Diego, or their authorized
representatives, with respect to the design of the proposed subdivision and the kind, nature and
extent of the proposed improvements;
2. The Fire Chief; and,
3. Other City departments, governmental agencies or special districts as
may be deemed appropriate or necessary by the Director of Planning in order to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
17. 76 ( 3) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
D. After receiving and considering public input, approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove tentative parcel maps, and report, as provided in this chapter, his approval,
conditional approval or disapproval directly to the subdivider.
E. Waive the requirement for filing and recordation of a parcel map for certain
subdivisions as provided in Section 17. 76. 170.
Prior Code 28- 6. 2. 1)
Section 17. 76. 110 Assignment of Certain Responsibilities to Director of Planning
The responsibilities of the City Council pursuant to Sections 66473. 5, 66474, 66474. 1
and 66474. 6 of the Government Code are assigned to the Director of Planning with respect to
those tentative parcel maps filed pursuant to this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 6. 2. 2)
Section 17. 76. 120 Action of the Director of Planning
Within five working days after a tentative parcel map has been filed, the Director of
Planning shall transmit copies of such map together with accompanying information to such
public agencies and public and private utilities as the Director of Planning determines may be
concerned. Each of the public agencies and utilities may, within ten working days after the map
has been sent to such agency, forward to the Director of Planning a written report of its findings
and recommendations thereon.
Prior Code 28- 6. 2. 3)
Section 17.76. 130 Consideration of Tentative Parcel Maps - Notice of Decision
A. Time for Consideration. Within 50 calendar days after the tentative parcel map is
filed, and is found complete, the City Planner shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
such map. The time limit specified in this paragraph may be extended by mutual consent of the
subdivider and the City Planner. If the tentative parcel map is disapproved, reasons must be
given for the disapproval.
B. Notice of Decision. Notice of the City Planner' s decision on the tentative parcel
map shall be delivered by mail to all property owners as shown on the latest equalized
assessment roll, or any update thereto, of property within 500 feet of the proposed project.
Notice shall be given at least ten calendar days prior to the effective date of the decision of the
City Planner. The notice shall include a description and location of the tentative parcel map; the
location where a copy of the tentative parcel map and proposed decision may be reviewed, and
the right to appeal the tentative parcel map.
C. Modification of Decision. On or before the effective date of the decision of the
City Planner, the City Planner may, based on information received, modify or reaffirm his
decision. The decision of the City Planner is final unless appealed, as set forth in Section
17. 76. 160.
Prior Code 28- 6. 2. 4; Ord. No. 92- 15, Amended, 09/ 08/ 92)
Section 17. 76. 140 Disapproval of Tentative Parcel Map
The Director of Planning shall not approve a tentative parcel map under any of the
following circumstances:
A. Unless he finds that the proposed subdivision, together with the provisions for its
design and improvements, is consistent with any general plan required by Article 5 of Chapter 3
17. 76 ( 4) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, or with any specific plan adopted pursuant to
Article 8 of said chapter, division and title.
B. The land proposed for division is a lot or parcel created illegally, unless said lot or
parcel has been approved by the Director of Planning or on appeal, by the City Council,
pursuant to Section 17. 88. 030 and a certificate of compliance relative thereto has been filed
with the county recorder.
C. The Director of Planning finds that the tentative parcel map does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
D. The Director of Planning makes any of the following findings:
1. That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and
specific plans;
2. That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not
consistent with the applicable general and specific plans;
3. That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development;
4. That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
5. That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or
wildlife or their habitat;
6. That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is likely to
cause serious public health problems;
7. That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will conflict
with easements of record or easements established by court judgment, acquired by the public at
large, for access through or use of, property within the proposed subdivision. In this connection,
the Director of Planning may approve a map if he finds that alternate easements, for access or
for use, will be provided, and that these will be substantially equivalent to one previously
acquired by the public;
8. That all requirements of CEQA have not been fulfilled.
Prior Code 28- 6. 2. 5)
Section 17. 76. 150 Modification of Regulations
Whenever the Director of Planning, or on appeal the City Council, finds with respect to a
tentative parcel map that the land to be divided is of such size or shape, or is subject to such
title limitations of record, or is affected by such topographical conditions, or is in such location,
or is to be devoted to such usage that it is impossible or impractical in the particular case for the
subdivider to conform fully to the requirements of this chapter, the Director of Planning, or on
appeal the City Council, may waive or modify such requirements as deemed reasonably
necessary; provided, however, any such waiver or modification shall be in conformity with the
spirit and purpose of the Subdivision Map Act and this chapter.
Prior code 28- 5. 2. 6)
Section 17. 76. 160 Appeal
Any interested person adversely affected by a decision may file an appeal pursuant to
Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code 28- 6. 3. 1; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 17. 76. 170 Waiver of Parcel Map
A. Other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the requirement
that a parcel map be prepared, filed with the City Engineer and recorded may be waived for the
17. 76 ( 5) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
following types of minor subdivisions, provided a finding is made by the Director of Planning, or
on appeal by the Planning Commission or City Council, that the proposed subdivision complies
with the requirements as to area, improvement and design, flood and water drainage control,
appropriate improved public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability,
environmental protection, and other requirements of this chapter and the Subdivision Map Act:
1. A minor subdivision wherein each resulting lot or parcel contains a gross
area of 40 acres or more, or each of which is a quarter-quarter section or larger; provided,
however, that the requirement that each resulting lot or parcel contain a gross area of 40 acres
or more or be a quarter-quarter section or larger may be modified pursuant to Section 17. 76. 150
to the extent that no such lot or parcel is smaller than 20 acres in gross area and the average
gross area of all resulting lots or parcels equals 40 acres or more;
2. A minor subdivision only for the purpose of leasing the lots resulting from
such subdivision;
3. A minor subdivision wherein each resulting lot or parcel was previously a
legally created separate lot under separate ownership, but which subsequently came into the
same ownership as adjoining parcels such that the total quantity of real property under the
same ownership is shown on the latest equalized county assessment roll as a unit or contiguous
units;
4. Subdivision converting commercial or industrial buildings into
condominiums provided such subdivision is located on the whole of a lot or lots created by
subdivision map or parcel map recorded in the Office of the San Diego County Recorder;
5. The minor subdivision for a condominium in conjunction with a
condominium housing permit, if no dedications are necessary to comply with such permit and if
the map is of a lot or parcel created by a previously recorded parcel or subdivision map for
which a survey was completed.
B. An applicant for a subdivision pursuant to Paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Subsection
A of this section shall file a tentative parcel map pursuant to this chapter together with a written
request that the parcel map requirement be waived. An applicant for a subdivision pursuant to
Paragraph 3 of Subsection A shall pay the fee prescribed by City Council resolution for parcel
maps and shall file an application and request for parcel map waiver which shall contain
sufficient information in the opinion of the Director of Planning to enable the Director of
Planning, or on appeal the Planning Commission or the City Council, to make the finding
required by this section. The processing of any application pursuant to Paragraph 3 of this
Subsection A shall be subject to the same time requirements and appeal procedures as are
provided in this chapter for tentative parcel maps. In any case where waiver of the parcel map
is granted by the Director of Planning, or on appeal by the Planning Commission or City
Council, the director shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder a certificate of
compliance pursuant to Chapter 17.88 of this title.
Prior Code 28- 6. 3. 2)
Section 17. 76. 180 Time to File Parcel Map - Extension of Time
Within 36 months after the approval or conditional approval of the tentative parcel map,
the subdivider shall cause the parcel map to be surveyed and a parcel map to be prepared in
accordance with the tentative parcel map as approved or conditionally approved, and in
accordance with the Subdivision Map Act and this title; provided, however, that if prior to the
expiration of said 36 months, the subdivider files with the City of Vista a written application for
an extension, the City Planner, may at any time within 90 days prior to the expiration of said 36
months, grant an extension. In the event the City Planner denies an application for extension,
the subdivider may appeal pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150 of the Development Code. The City
Planner shall be designated the advisory agency with regard to major subdivision extensions.
17. 76 ( 6) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
An extension shall not be granted or conditionally granted unless the City Planner finds
that the design and improvements of the subdivision are consistent with the General Plan, any
applicable specific plan, Titles 17 and 18 of this code, and any public facility or development
management policies in existence at the time the extension is approved. In granting an
extension, the City Planner may impose new conditions and may revise existing conditions. An
extension shall be for a period of not more than two years unless the City Planner finds that an
extension for a longer period is warranted, giving consideration to the scope of the project, the
previous expenditures made by the subdivider in furtherance of the subdivision, and the effect of
the extension of the development on the community. The total period of all extensions shall not
exceed five years.
Prior Code 28- 6. 3. 3; Ord. 97- 4, Amended, 01/ 28/97)
Section 17. 76. 190 Requirements for Minor Subdivision
A. All minor subdivisions shall meet the dedication, easement, and construction of
off-site and on- site improvements requirements applicable to major subdivisions pursuant to
Sections 17. 76.010 through 17. 76. 180 of this chapter for the parcels being created; provided,
however, that requirements for the construction of such off-site and on- site improvements shall
be noticed by certificate on the parcel map, in the instrument evidencing the waiver of such
parcel map, or by separate instrument and shall be recorded on, concurrently with or prior to the
parcel map or instrument of waiver of a parcel map being filed for record.
B. Fulfillment of such construction requirements shall not be required until, at, or
after such time as a building or grading permit is issued by the City, except that the Director of
Planning may require fulfillment of such construction requirements within a reasonable time
following approval of the parcel map and prior to the issuance of a building or grading permit for
the development of a parcel upon a finding that fulfillment of such construction requirements is
necessary for reasons of:
1. The public health and safety; or
2. The required construction is a necessary prerequisite to the orderly
development of the surrounding area.
Prior Code 28- 7. 1)
Section 17. 76.200 Dedication Procedure
All dedications or offers of dedication required by the provisions of this chapter shall
either be by separate instrument, which shall be completed prior to filing of the parcel map, or
shall be by certificate on the parcel map. The method of dedication or offer of dedication is
made by certificate on the map; such dedication or offer of dedication shall be accepted or
rejected on behalf of the City by the City Engineer. All offers of dedication shall be in such terms
as to be binding on the owner, his heirs, assigns, or successors in interest, and except as
provided in Subsection ( b) of Section 66477.2 of the Government Code, shall continue until the
City accepts or abandons such offer. Any such dedication or offer of dedication shall be free of
any burden or encumbrance which would interfere with the purposes for which the dedication or
offer of dedications is required.
Prior Code 28- 7. 2)
Section 17. 76.210 Agreement to Improve
A. The subdivider may elect to agree to construct or install improvements required
by this chapter which are to be located in public easements or rights- of-way. In the event a
subdivider elects to agree to construct or install improvements, he shall provide a good and
17. 76 ( 7) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
sufficient improvement security as defined in Section 66499 of the Subdivision Map Act and he
shall prepare and deposit with the City Engineer detailed plans and specifications of the
improvements to be constructed and such plans and specifications shall be made part of any
such agreement and of the improvement security.
B. Such agreement and improvement security shall be in a form acceptable to the
City Attorney, and may be executed on behalf of the City by the City Engineer or his designee,
subject to the following conditions:
1. The term of the agreement shall not exceed two years nor be extended
for no more than 12 months from the agreement's original date of expiration.
2. The amount of the security to be deposited shall be based on the
estimated cost of improvements as approved by the City Engineer.
3. All improvements shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the City Engineer.
4. All improvements shall be done and maintained in a safe and sanitary
manner at the sole cost, risk and responsibility of the owner and his successors in interest, who
shall hold the City harmless with respect thereto, until such time as the improvements are
accepted by the City.
Prior Code 28- 7. 3; Ord. No. 2000- 2, Amended, 06/ 13/ 2000)
Section 17. 76.220 Exemption from Improvements
Other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the following minor
subdivision shall not be subject to the public improvement or dedication requirements of this
chapter except insofar as is necessary to comply with the Subdivision Map Act, including
Sections 66426 and 66428 thereof: any parcel or parcels of land subdivided into lots or parcels,
each of a gross area of 40 acres or more each of which is a quarter- quarter section or larger.
Prior Code 28- 7. 4)
Section 17. 76.230 Covenant Not to Oppose Road Improvement District
In lieu of constructing or agreeing under Section 17. 76.210 to construct the
improvements required by this chapter which are to be located in public easements or rights- ofway,
the Director of Planning upon recommendation by the City Engineer, may require that the
subdivider execute a covenant not to oppose the formation of a road improvement district. The
covenant executed under authority herein may be used to secure future improvements in
easements, rights- of-way or irrevocable offers of dedication and may be used when streets
serving adjacent properties or the area in general are below City specifications to a degree that
public action, such as assessment district proceedings, would be required in the future in order
to improve such streets to City specifications.
Prior Code 28- 7. 5)
Section 17. 76.240 Lien Contract for Improvements
A. A fee in lieu of construction in the amount of current year construction costs plus
30 percent for engineering design and contingencies will be deposited with the City.
B. Construction cost estimates will be on a pro rata basis for full street
improvements.
C. These moneys will be put into a restricted assets account for actual construction
of improvements in the public rights- of-way for that street.
Prior Code 28- 7. 6)
17. 76 ( 8) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 76.250 Monuments and Flagging
Every parcel map shall show monuments which shall be set by a licensed surveyor or
engineer in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 17.44 of this code, and every minor
subdivision may be required to be flagged pursuant to Section 17. 12. 100.
Prior Code 28- 7. 7)
17. 76 ( 9) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 80
Reversions to Acreage
Sections:
17. 80.010 Reversions to Acreage by Final Map
17. 80.020 Initiation of Proceedings - By Owner
17. 80.030 Initiation of Proceedings - By City Council
17. 80.040 Data for Reversion to Acreage
17. 80.050 Proceedings Before the City Council
17. 80.060 Return of Fees, Deposits - Release of Securities
17. 80.070 Delivery of Final Map
17. 80.080 Effect of Filing Reversion Map with County Recorder
Section 17. 80.010 Reversions to Acreage by Final Map
Subdivided property may be reverted to acreage pursuant to provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 9. 1)
Section 17. 80.020 Initiation of Proceedings - By Owners
Proceedings to revert subdivided property to acreage may be initiated by petition of all of
the owners of record of the property. The petition shall be in a form prescribed by the Director of
Planning. The petition shall contain the information required by Section 17. 80.040 and such
other information as required by the Director of Planning.
Prior Code 28- 9. 2)
Section 17. 80.030 Initiation of Proceedings - By City Council
The City Council, at the request of any person or on its own motion, may by resolution
initiate proceedings to revert property to acreage. The Council shall direct the Director of
Planning to obtain the necessary information to initiate and conduct the proceedings.
Prior Code 28- 9. 3)
Section 17. 80.040 Data for Reversion to Acreage
Petitioners shall file the following:
A. Evidence of title to the real property; and
B. Evidence of the consent of all of the owners of any interest in the property; or
C. Evidence that none of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two years from the date the final map or parcel map was filed for record, or within the time
allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements, whichever is later; or
D. Evidence that no lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold within five
years from the date such final or parcel map was filed for record; and
E. A final map which delineates dedications which will not be vacated and
dedications required as a condition to reversion.
Prior Code 28- 9. 4)
17. 80 (l) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 17. 80.050 Proceedings Before the City Council
A. A public hearing shall be held before the City Council on all petitions for, and City
Council initiations of, reversions to acreage. Notice of the public hearing shall be given as
provided in Subsections A, C and D of Section 18. 04.060 of this code. The Director of Planning
may give such other notice as he deems necessary or advisable.
B. The City Council may approve a reversion to acreage only if it finds and records
in writing that:
1. Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned by the
reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public purposes; and,
2. Either:
a. All owners of an interest in the real property within the subdivision
have consented to reversion, or,
b. None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for record, or within the time
allowed by agreement for completion of the improvements, whichever is later; or,
C. No lots shown on the final or parcel map were sold within five
years from the date such final or parcel map was filed for record.
C. The City Council may require as conditions of the reversion:
1. The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets or easements;
2. The retention of all or a portion of previously paid subdivision fees,
deposits or improvement securities if the same are necessary to accomplish any of the
purposes of this chapter.
Prior Code 28- 9. 5)
Section 17. 80.060 Return of Fees, Deposits - Release of Securities
Upon filing of the final map for reversion to acreage with the County Recorder, all fees
and deposits shall be returned to the subdivider and all improvement securities shall be
released except those retained pursuant to Section 17. 80. 050.
Prior Code 28- 9. 6)
Section 17. 80.070 Delivery of Final Map
After the hearing before the City Council and approval of the reversion, the final map
shall be delivered to the County Recorder.
Prior Code 28- 9. 7)
Section 17. 80.080 Effect of Filing Reversion Map with County Recorder
Reversion shall be effective upon the final map being filed for record by the County
Recorder. Upon filing, all dedications and offers of dedication not shown on the final map for
reversion shall be of no further force or effect.
Prior Code 28- 9. 8)
17. 80 (2) Vista 4/ 28/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 84
Lot Line Adjustments
Sections:
17. 84.010 Applicability
17. 84.020 Application
17. 84.030 Review; Approval; Notice
17. 84.040 Requirements for Approval
17. 84.050 Conditions of Approval
17. 84.060 Fulfillment of Conditions - Record of Survey
Section 17.84.010 Applicability
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, this chapter shall establish the
procedures and standards for the review, processing, and approval of lot line adjustments. A lot
line adjustment shall consist of a boundary adjustment between four or fewer existing adjoining
parcels where the land taken from one parcel is added to an adjoining parcel, and where a
greater number of parcels than originally existed is not thereby created.
Prior Code 28- 10. 1; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 17.84.020 Application
An applicant for a lot line adjustment shall file a plat and submit an application to the City
Planner using a City-approved application form. A fee, in an amount set by the City Council,
shall be paid when the application is filed.
Prior Code 28- 10. 2; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 17. 84.030 Review; Approval; Notice
The City Planner shall conditionally approve or deny the application. The applicant shall
be notified in writing of the City Planner' s decision. The decision may be appealed in
accordance with Chapter 18. 04.
Prior Code 28- 10. 3, 28- 10. 4, 28- 10. 7; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07; Ord. No 2020- 1,
Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 17.84.040 Requirements for Approval
A lot line application shall be approved only if each resulting parcel will conform to the
General Plan, Specific Plan, building ordinances, and zoning ordinances ( inclusive of the
Development Code).
Prior Code 28- 10. 6; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 17.84.050 Conditions of Approval
Any approval may: ( 1) include conditions or exactions required to cause the resulting
parcels to conform to the General Plan, building ordinances, and zoning ordinances ( inclusive of
all provisions of the Development Code); ( 2) the prepayment of real property taxes in advance
of the approval; and ( 3) facilitate the relocation of existing utilities, infrastructure, or easements.
All conditions must be satisfied before recordation of the grant deed and certificate of
17. 84 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
compliance pursuant to Section 17. 84.060, unless the condition is otherwise secured as
provided by this section. Rather than requiring that a condition be satisfied at the time of
recordation, the City Planner, in his or her reasonable discretion, may accept an agreement
executed by all affected property owners guaranteeing the timely future performance of the
condition and providing bonds or other security acceptable to the City Planner to guarantee
such performance. A survey may be required if permitted by Section 8762 of the Business and
Professions Code or otherwise permitted by applicable law.
Prior Code 28- 10. 5; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced, 5/ 8/ 07)
Section 17.84.060 Fulfillment of Conditions - Record of Survey
Upon satisfying all permit conditions as provided in Section 17. 84.050, the lot line
adjustment shall be effected through the recordation of a certificate of compliance for each lot
resulting from the adjustment process and the recordation of a grant deed or deeds to transfer
property between adjoining lots. The recordation must occur within one year of the date that the
lot line adjustment is administratively approved, subject to an extension of one year if the
request is made prior to the expiration of the initial approval. The lot line adjustment shall not
become final until the recordation required by this section is effected and all conditions required
by Section 17. 84.050 are fully satisfied or secured. If the recordation does not occur within the
time allowed by this section, the application approval shall become null and void.
Prior Code 28- 10. 7; Ord. No. 97-4, Amended, 1/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2007- 5, Repealed and Replaced,
5/ 8/ 07)
17. 84 (2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 17. 88
Enforcement
Sections:
17. 88.010 Violation - Reporting
17. 88.020 Violation - Notice
17. 88.030 Development Permits and Approvals Withheld
17. 88.040 Certificates of Compliance
17. 88.050 Appeal
17. 88.060 Violation - Penalty
Section 17.88.010 Violation - Reporting
Whenever the County Assessor or the head of any City department finds that the
provisions of this title or of the Subdivision Map Act have been violated, he shall report such
violation to the City Engineer, Building Official and the Director of Planning. It shall be the duty
of the Building Official to investigate such report and enforce the provisions of this title and the
Subdivision Map Act.
Prior Code 28- 11. 2)
Section 17. 88.020 Violation - Notice
Whenever the City has knowledge that real property has been divided in violation of the
provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or of City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, the
Director of Planning shall cause to be filed for record with the County Recorder a tentative
notice of violation, describing the real property in detail, naming the owners thereof, describing
the violation and stating that an opportunity will be given to the owner to present evidence. At
least 30 days prior to the recording of the final notice, the owner of the real property shall be
advised in writing of the intention to record a final notice of violation and specifying a time, date
and place at which the owner may present evidence to the City Council why such notice should
not be recorded. If, after the owner has presented evidence, the City Council determines that
there has been no violation, the Director of Planning shall forthwith file a release of the tentative
notice of violation with the County Recorder, and if the City Council determines that there has
been a violation, the Director of Planning shall forthwith file a notice of violation with the County
Recorder.
Prior Code 28- 11. 3)
Section 17. 88.030 Development Permits and Approvals Withheld
A. No building permit, grading permit nor any other permit shall be issued, nor any
approval granted, that is necessary to develop any real property which has been divided, or
which has resulted from a division, in violation of the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act or
City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto applicable at the time such division occurred, unless
the Director of Planning, or on appeal, the City Council, finds that development of such real
property is not contrary to the public health or the public safety. The authority to deny such a
permit or such approval shall apply whether the applicant therefore was the owner of the real
property at the time of such violation or whether the applicant therefore is the current owner of
the real property with, or without, actual or constructive knowledge of the violation at the time of
the acquisition of his interest in such real property.
17. 88 ( l) Vista 5/ 5/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Whenever any person submits an application to the Building Official for a building
permit for proposed construction of more than one main building as defined in the zoning
ordinance on any single lot or building site, the Building Official shall refer such application
together with the plot plan to the Director of Planning for his determination as to whether such
proposed construction would create a subdivision. The Building Official shall not issue a building
permit for such proposed construction unless the Director of Planning has approved the plot
plan and determined that the proposed construction would not constitute a violation of the
Subdivision Map Act or this title.
C. Upon receipt of a written notification from the permit issuing authority, or the body
authorized to grant approval, that a permit or approval is being sought to develop real property
which has been subdivided, or which has resulted from a division in violation of the Subdivision
Map Act or City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, or upon receipt of a written request from
the owner of such real property, the Director of Planning, or on appeal, the City Council shall
determine whether such real property is or is not approved for development, and shall so inform
the owner thereof and the authority or body which has originated such notification. If it is
determined that such real property is approved for development, the Director of Planning, or on
appeal, the City Council, may impose such conditions as would have been applicable to the
division of the property at the time the current owner of record acquired the property and which
has been established at such time by the Subdivision Map Act or City ordinances enacted
pursuant thereto, provided that if a conditional certificate of compliance has been filed for record
pursuant to the provisions of Section 17. 88.040, only such conditions stipulated in such
certificate shall be applicable.
D. In determining whether approval or conditional approval should be granted for
development of real property divided, or resulting from a division, in violation of the Subdivision
Map Act or city ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, the Director of Planning and the City
Council shall give consideration to:
1. Whether the owner of the real property can rescind the agreement by
which he acquired the real property and recover the consideration paid therefore;
2. Whether the real property meets the requirements of the applicable
zoning regulations;
3. Whether the real property is served by a public sewer or is approved by
the director of public health for installation of a private subsurface sewage disposal system;
4. Whether the real property has a potable water supply satisfactory to the
director of public health;
5. Whether the real property has legal access to a public dedicated street;
6. Whether the current owner would have been required to dedicate land for
any public purpose to construct or install any improvements pursuant to the terms of the
Subdivision Map Act or City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto had the subdivision by which
such real property was created been submitted for approval at the time the current owner
acquired the property.
Prior Code 28- 11. 4)
Section 17.88.040 Certificates of Compliance
A. Any owner of real property may request in writing that the Director of Planning
make a determination whether such real property complies with applicable provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act and City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto. Within 50 days after receipt
of such written request, the Director of Planning shall make a determination that such real
property complies with the applicable provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and City ordinances
enacted pursuant thereto, or that such real property does not comply with said, provisions.
17. 88 ( 2) Vista 5/ 5/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. If the subject real property is found to be in compliance with the Subdivision Map
Act and City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, the Director of Planning shall cause a
certificate of compliance relative to such real property to be filed for record with the County
Recorder which shall identify the real property and shall state that the division thereof complies
with applicable provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and City ordinances enacted pursuant
thereto.
C. If the subject real property is found not to be in compliance with the Subdivision
Map Act and City ordinances enacted pursuant thereto, the Director of Planning, or on appeal,
the City Council, may impose such conditions as would have been applicable to the division of
the property at the time the current owner of record acquired the property and which had been
established at such time by the Subdivision Map Act or City ordinances enacted pursuant
thereto. Upon making such a determination and establishing such conditions the Director of
Planning shall cause a conditional certificate of compliance setting forth such conditions to be
filed for record with the County Recorder, but compliance with such conditions shall not be
required until such time as a building permit or grading permit is issued by the City.
D. The certificate of compliance shall be issued for any real property which has
been approved for development pursuant to Section 17. 88. 030.
E. A recorded final map or parcel map shall constitute a certificate of compliance
with respect to the parcels of real property described therein, and no additional certificate of
compliance shall be issued therefore.
Prior Code 28- 11. 5)
Section 17. 88.050 Appeal
Any decision of the City Planner may be appealed pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code 28- 11. 6; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 17.88.060 Violation  Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code.
Prior Code 28- 11. 8)
17. 88 ( 3) Vista 5/ 5/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (1) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Chapter 18.02
Purpose, Interpretation and Definitions
Sections:
18.02.005 Purpose of Provisions
18.02.010 Short Title
18.02.015 Interpretation of Provisions
18.02.020 Applicability - Effect on Earlier Provisions
18.02.025 Article and Section Headings
18.02.030 Tenses
18.02.035 Number
18.02.040 Definitions and Signification of Words
18.02.043 Aboveground/On-Ground Pool
18.02.045 Accessory Building(s)
18.02.050 Accessory Living Quarters
18.02.055 Accessory Land Use(s)
18.02.060 Alley
18.02.065 Amendment
18.02.070 Antenna, Radio
18.02.075 Antenna, Radio and Television Reception
18.02.080 Antenna, Satellite
18.02.085 Antenna, Satellite, Height
18.02.090 Apartment
18.02.095 Apartment Hotel
18.02.100 Apartment House
18.02.105 Auditorium
18.02.107 Authorized Cannabis Use
18.02.110 Automobile Service Station
18.02.115 Automobile Wrecking
18.02.120 Aviary
18.02.122 Bail Bond Business
18.02.125 Bar and/or Cocktail Lounge
18.02.126 Bargain Basement Store
18.02.127 Barrier
18.02.130 Basement
18.02.135 Block
18.02.140 Boardinghome for the Aged
18.02.145 Boardinghome or Boardinghouse
18.02.150 Borrow Pit
18.02.155 Building
18.02.160 Building Complex
18.02.165 Building Height
18.02.170 Building Site
18.02.175 Building Site Front
18.02.180 Bungalow Court
18.02.182 Bus Bench
18.02.185 Cabana
18.02.186 Cannabis
18.02.188 Cannabis Use
18.02.190 Cat
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (2) ( Vista 1/8/21)
18.02.195 Cemetery
18.02.197 Check Casher
18.02.200 Church
18.02.205 Club
18.02.210 College
18.02.215 Commercial Coach
18.02.220 Commission
18.02.225 Community Shopping Center
18.02.230 Convalescent Home
18.02.235 Convenience Market
18.02.240 County
18.02.245 Court
18.02.246 Cultivation, Cultivates
18.02.247 Day Spa
18.02.250 Director
18.02.255 Dog
18.02.260 Drive-In Facility
18.02.265 Dump
18.02.270 Dwelling
18.02.275 Dwelling, Multiple
18.02.280 Dwelling, One-Family
18.02.285 Dwelling, Two-Family
18.02.290 Dwelling Unit
18.02.292 Employee Housing
18.02.293 Emergency Shelter
18.02.294 Expressly Listed Use
18.02.295 Family
18.02.296 Farm Employee Housing
18.02.300 Fences
18.02.305 Fortunetelling
18.02.310 Foster Home
18.02.315 Garage, Private
18.02.320 Garage, Public
18.02.323 Grade
18.02.325 Guesthouse
18.02.330 Half-Story
18.02.332 Hiring Hall and/or Labor Center
18.02.335 Home Occupation
18.02.337 Hot Tub
18.02.340 Hospital
18.02.345 Hospital, Psychiatric
18.02.350 Hotel
18.02.351 Hotel, Single-Room Occupancy (SRO
18.02.353 Housing, Supportive
18.02.354 Housing, Transitional
18.02.355 Intensification of Land Use or Activity
18.02.360 Kennel
18.02.365 Kitchen
18.02.370 Landscaping
18.02.372 Lawful Use
18.02.375 Light Pollution
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (3) ( Vista 1/8/21)
18.02.380 Loading Space
18.02.382 Local Cannabis License
18.02.385 Lot
18.02.390 Lot Area
18.02.395 Lot, Corner
18.02.400 Lot Depth
18.02.405 Lot, Interior
18.02.410 Lot, Key
18.02.415 Lot Line, Front
18.02.420 Lot Line, Rear
18.02.425 Lot Line, Side
18.02.430 Lot, Reversed Corner
18.02.435 Lot, Through
18.02.440 Lot Width
18.02.443 Manufactured Home, Qualifying
18.02.445 Manufacturing, General
18.02.446A Marijuana Deleted
18.02.446B Marijuana-Related Use Deleted
18.02.447 Massage Establishment or Massage Business
18.02.448 Medical Marijuana Land Use or Medical Marijuana Business Deleted
18.02.450 Mobile Home
18.02.455 Mobile Home Park
18.02.460 Motel or Tourist Court
18.02.465 Motor Vehicle Sales Facility, New or Used
18.02.470 Neighborhood Shopping Center
18.02.475 Night Sky
18.02.480 Nonconforming Building
18.02.485 Nonconforming Use
18.02.490 Open Space, Common Usable
18.02.495 Open Space, Private Usable
18.02.500 Ornamental Birds or Songbirds
18.02.505 Parcel of Land
18.02.510 Parking Area
18.02.515 Parking Space
18.02.520 Parking Space, Covered
18.02.522 Pawn Shop
18.02.525 Person
18.02.530 Pets
18.02.535 Planning Commission
18.02.538 Pot-Bellied Pig
18.02.540 Poultry
18.02.542 Primary Use(s)
18.02.545 Recycling Collection Facility, Large
18.02.550 Recycling Collection Facility, Small
18.02.555 Recycling Processing Facility, Large
18.02.560 Recycling Processing Facility, Small
18.02.565 Regional Shopping Center
18.02.566 Rehabilitation Mental Health Services Facility
18.02.570 Research and Development
18.02.575 Residential Care Home
18.02.580 Residential Hotel
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (4) ( Vista 1/8/21)
18.02.585 Resort Hotel
18.02.590 Rest Home
18.02.595 Reverse Vending Machine, Bulk
18.02.600 Reverse Vending Machine, Standard
18.02.605 Sanatorium or Sanitarium
18.02.610 Section
18.02.615 Schools, Elementary, Junior High and High
18.02.620 Scrap Metal Processor
18.02.623 Semi-Rural Street
18.02.624 Smoke Shop
18.02.625 Smoking Lounge
18.02.626 Solar Access Corridor
18.02.630 Solar Collector
18.02.635 Solar Energy System
18.02.637 Spa
18.02.638 Spa, Portable
18.02.640 Stable, Private
18.02.645 Stable, Public
18.02.650 Stand
18.02.653 Store, Tobacco
18.02.655 Story
18.02.660 Street
18.02.665 Street Line
18.02.670 Street, Side
18.02.675 Structural Alterations
18.02.680 Structure
18.02.681 Supportive Housing
18.02.682 Swimming Pool
18.02.683 Swimming Pool, Indoor
18.02.684 Swimming Pool, Outdoor
18.02.685 Tattoo Parlor
18.02.686 Trailer Coach
18.02.690 Transient Trailer Court or Transient Trailer Park
18.02.695 Transit Shelter
18.02.696 Unauthorized Cannabis Use
18.02.697 Unlawful Use
18.02.700 Use(s)
18.02.705 Variance
18.02.710 Yard
18.02.715 Yard, Front
18.02.720 Yard, Rear
18.02.725 Yard, Rear Line of Required Front
18.02.730 Yard, Side
18.02.735 Zone
Section 18.02.005 Purpose of Provisions
Zoning regulations for the City are adopted and established to serve the public health,
safety and general welfare and to provide the economic and social advantage resulting from an
orderly use of land resources.
Prior Code Appendix A 101)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (5) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.010 Short Title
The ordinance codified in this title shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 102)
Section 18.02.015 Interpretation of Provisions
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held to be the
minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare. It is not intended by this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easement, covenant or other agreement between parties. When this title imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, regulations, or by
easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
Prior Code Appendix A 2501)
Section 18.02.020 Applicability - Effect on Earlier Provisions
A. The ordinance codified in this title supersedes previous zoning ordinances of the
City, and to the extent that this title is inconsistent therewith, such zoning ordinances are
repealed. If any of the provisions of this title shall be determined to be not applicable to land
regulated by any of such zoning ordinances, the provisions of such zoning ordinances shall
continue to apply.
B. Nothing in this title shall be construed as validating or legalizing any land use or
building or structure conducted, constructed, erected or maintained in violation of any City
ordinance, and nothing in this title shall prevent or bar the filing of a complaint or punishment of
any action in violation of such zoning ordinances or bar the bringing of an action to compel the
discontinuance of any use or the removal of any building or structure conducted, constructed,
erected or maintained in violation of such zoning ordinances.
C. Insofar as the provisions of this title impose the same regulations as imposed by
such zoning ordinances, this title shall be construed as a continuation of such zoning ordinances
and not as a new enactment.
Prior Code Appendix A 2503)
Section 18.02.025 Article and Section Headings
Article and section headings contained in this title shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of any section of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 201)
Section 18.02.030 Tenses
As used in this title, the present tense includes the future, and the future the present.
Prior Code Appendix A 202)
Section 18.02.035 Number
As used in this title, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
Prior Code Appendix. A 203)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (6) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.040 Definitions and Signification of Words
The following words have in this title the signification attached to them in this chapter
unless otherwise apparent in the context.
Prior Code Appendix A 204)
Section 18.02.043 Aboveground/On-Ground Pool
See definition of swimming pool.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.045 Accessory Building(s)
A. Residential Land-Use Zones.
1.  Attached accessory building shall mean a portion of the main
residential building or, when permitted guest quarters, provided such area comprising the
attached accessory building is: (a) separated from the habitable spaces (main building and/or
guest quarters) by a fire rated wall; and/or has no direct access or openings to the main
building; (b) located on the same lot or building site as the main building or guest quarters; and
c) used exclusively for activities or facilities that are accessory or supplemental to the primary
residential land use; and (d) has a floor area that is less than fifty percent of the floor area of the
main building. Accessory Building(s): unless the City Planner approves a greater floor area limit
for buildings that are permitted by right within the applicable zone, are not habitable, and are
consistent with the General Plan.
2.  Detached accessory building shall mean a non-habitable (except guest
house or quarters where permitted) building no closer than five feet to the main residential building,
provided that such building: ( a) shall be located on the same lot or building site as the main
building; ( b) is used exclusively for activities or facilities that are accessory or supplemental
to the primary residential land use(s); and (c) has a floor area that is less than fifty percent of the
floor area of the main building. Accessory Building(s): unless the City Planner approves a greater
floor area limit for buildings that are permitted by right within the applicable zone, are not habitable,
and are consistent with the General Plan. All detached accessory buildings in the E-1, A-1, or OR
zones are exempt from Section ( c) herein. Metal detached accessory buildings may be
permitted in all residential land-use zones subject to the Zoning Administrator in accordance with
the provision of Section 18.64.030.
B. Commercial and Industrial Land Use Zones.
1.  Attached accessory building shall mean a portion of the main building
separated from the main building(s) by a fire rated wall and/or with limited or no direct access or
openings to the main building. Such building(s) shall be located on the same lot or building site
as the main building(s), and be used exclusively for activities or facilities that are accessory,
secondary or supplemental to the primary commercial or industrial land use(s) on the site.
2.  Detached accessory building shall mean a building no closer than five
feet to the main building. Such building(s) shall be located on the same lot or building site as the
main building, and be used exclusively for activities or facilities that are accessory, secondary or
supplemental to the primary land use(s).
C. Storage Containers. Industrial/Commercial Storage Containers ( Maritime &
Railroad standardized cargo containers), semi-trailers and similar containers are specifically
excluded from this definition of accessory buildings. Said containers may be permitted at certain
locations for specified purposes in conformance with Section 18.58.580 of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 205; Ord. No. 1993-26, Amended, 11/23/93; Ord. 2012-12, Amended, 10/9/12;
Ord. No. 2017-17, Amended, 10/24/17; Ord. No. 2020-1, Amended, 1/14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (7) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.050 Accessory Living Quarters
See Section 18.02.325. Guest House.
Prior Code Appendix A 206; Ord. No. 93-26, Amended, 11/23/93)
Section 18.02.055 Accessory Land Use(s)
A. Residential Land-Use Zones. Accessory land use(s) shall mean a use or activity
that is accessory, incidental or supplemental to the primary residential land use. Such uses or
activities may include, but shall not be limited to: guest-quarters (house) where permitted; the use
of solar energy by the primary land use; the on-site parking/storage of passenger vehicles used
on a regular basis by the resident(s) of the site; the storage of personal and residential items that
are the personal property of the resident(s); or outdoor recreational and/or play apparatus for the
personal use of the primary resident(s).
B. Commercial or Industrial Land-Use Zones. Accessory land use(s) shall mean: a
use or activity that is accessory incidental or supplemental to the primary commercial or industrial
land use. Such uses or activities may include, but shall not be limited to: the use of solar energy
for electrical power generation or other purposes by the primary land use(s); the on-site
parking/storage of motor vehicles used on a regular basis by the primary occupants of the site; or
the storage of material and equipment necessary for the operation of the primary land use(s)
permitted on-site.
C. An accessory use does not include any use which would constitute, produce, or
result in a violation of state or local law, including those relating to cannabis.
Prior Code Appendix A 207; Ord. No. 93-26, Amended, 11/23/93; Ord. No. 2007-4, Amended, 5/8/07;
Measure Z, Amended, 12/11/18; Ord. No. 2019-18, Amended, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.060 Alley
A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to abutting
property is an alley to that property.
Prior Code Appendix A 208)
Section 18.02.065 Amendment
Amendment means a change in the wording, context or substance of this title, or a
change in the zone boundaries upon the zoning map, a part of the ordinance codified in this title,
when adopted by ordinance passed by the City Council in the manner prescribed by law.
Prior Code Appendix A 209)
Section 18.02.070 Antenna, Radio
Radio antenna means any device attached to any pole that is utilized for the purpose
of transmitting and receiving electronic radio signals.
Prior Code Appendix A 209.3)
Section 18.02.075 Antenna, Radio and Television Reception
Radio and television reception antenna means any wire device attached on any pole
that is utilized for the purpose of only receiving radio or television signals.
Prior Code Appendix A 209.4)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (8) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.080 Antenna, Satellite
Satellite antenna means any antenna containing a dish element that is generally
circular and reflective and has a diameter, or its equivalent, of more than two feet, capable of
transmitting or receiving signals from a transmitter, or a transmitter relay located in a planetary
orbit. This may include, but is not limited to, satellite earth station, satellite receiving dish or dish
antenna.
Prior Code Appendix A 209.5)
Section 18.02.085 Antenna, Satellite, Height
Satellite antenna height means the height of the antenna or dish measured vertically
from the highest point, when positioned for operation, to the lowest point, which is defined as
bottom of the base at either roof or ground level.
Prior Code Appendix A 209.6)
Section 18.02.090 Apartment
Apartment means a room or suite of two or more rooms in a multiple dwelling, occupied
or suitable for occupancy as a residence for one family.
Prior Code Appendix A 210)
Section 18.02.095 Apartment Hotel
Apartment hotel means a building or portions thereof designed for or containing both
individual guestrooms or suites of rooms and dwelling units.
Prior Code Appendix A 211)
Section 18.02.100 Apartment House
Apartment house means a multiple dwelling.
Prior Code Appendix A 212)
Section 18.02.105 Auditorium
Auditorium means a building or portion thereof used or designed for use by an
audience, including but not limited to, public assembly, religious services, meetings, lectures,
dances, entertainment and similar uses. The largest room of a church, school or college used for
the assembly of persons shall be deemed to be the auditorium.
Prior Code A 213)
Section 18.02.107 Authorized Cannabis Use
Authorized cannabis use means a cannabis use which: 1) holds a current and valid
local cannabis license, special use permit (if required by local ordinance), and a state license for
its operations, facilities and premises; and 2) operates in compliance with all applicable state laws,
state regulations, local ordinances, local regulations, local permits and applicable licensing or
permitting conditions.
Ord. No. 2019-18, Added, 12/10/19)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (9) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.110 Automobile Service Station
Automobile service station means a retail place of business engaged primarily in the
sale and supply of motor fuels and oils and supplying goods and services essential for the
operation and maintenance of motor vehicles.
Prior Code Appendix A 213.1)
Section 18.02.115 Automobile Wrecking
Automobile wrecking means the dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their parts. The
presence on any lot or parcel of land of two or more motor vehicles which for a period exceeding
30 days have not been capable of operating under their own power, and from which parts have
been or are to be removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima facie evidence of an automobile
wrecking yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 214)
Section 18.02.120 Aviary
Aviary means any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or wherein
are kept more than 25 ornamental birds or songbirds, in any combination, whether such keeping
is for pleasure, profit, breeding or exhibiting, but not including poultry or birds kept for production
and sale of meat and/or eggs.
Prior Code Appendix A 214.1)
Section 18.02.122 Bail Bond Business
Bail bond business means any person, organization or business engaged in any
activity which requires one or more of the following California licenses: bail agent, bail permittee,
or bail solicitor.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.125 Bar and/or Cocktail Lounge
Bar and/or cocktail lounge means any premises wherein alcoholic beverages are sold
at retail for consumption on the premises and minors are excluded there from by law. It shall not
mean premises where such beverages are sold in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises and the sale of such beverages comprises less than 25% of the
gross receipts.
Prior Code Appendix A 214.2)
Section 18.02.126 Bargain Basement Store
Bargain basement store means any for-profit or non-profit store including any
establishment, operation, or enterprise with one or more of the following characteristics: 1) a
majority of the stores merchandise is offered for sale at a price equal to or below $ 5.00; 2)
merchandise priced at or below $5.00 occupies at least one-half of the stores floor area which is
devoted to retail sales; 3) used items represent a majority of the merchandise offered for sale in
the store; or 4) used merchandise occupies at least one-half of the floor area in the store devoted
to retail sales. Used merchandise shall mean all forms of used items including without limitation
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (10) ( Vista 1/8/21)
items that were formerly used but have been repaired, refurbished, and/or repackaged. Bargain
basement store excludes: 1) bona fide antique stores; 2) consignment stores; 3) stores which
primarily engage in the sale of used books, periodicals, videos, or DVDs; stores specializing in
the sale of highly collectible items such as used coins, stamps, baseball cards, and other similar
collectibles; and 5) a store where the majority of the items sold measured by receipts or number
of items sold consist of food and/or beverage items.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.127 Barrier
Barrier is a fence, wall, building wall or a combination thereof, which completely
surrounds the swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming pool.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.130 Basement
Basement means a story partly underground and having at least one-half of its height,
measured from its floor to its finished ceiling, above the average adjoining grade. A basement
shall be counted as a story if the vertical distance from the average adjoining grade to its ceiling
is over five feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 215)
Section 18.02.135 Block
Block means all property fronting upon one side of a street between intersecting and
intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of -way, waterway, terminus of dead-end street
or City boundary. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the block on the side
of the street which it intercepts.
Prior Code Appendix A 216)
Section 18.02.140 Boardinghome for the Aged
For boardinghome for the aged, see  residential care home.
Prior Code Appendix A 217.5)
Section 18.02.145 Boardinghome or Boardinghouse
Boardinghome or  boardinghouse means a dwelling unit where lodging and meals
are provided for compensation for not more than 15 persons, excluding nursing and residential
care homes.
Prior Code Appendix A 217)
Section 18.02.150 Borrow Pit
Borrow pit means any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel or other material
is removed by excavation or otherwise for any purpose other than that necessary and incidental
to grading or to building construction or operation on the premises where such necessary and
incidental removal is completed within six months.
Prior Code Appendix A 218)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (11) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.155 Building
Building means a structure having a roof.
Prior Code Appendix A 219)
Section 18.02.160 Building Complex
Building complex means a large building or cluster of buildings with a gross floor area
less than 20,000 square feet on one or more lots or building sites containing two or more
commercial or industrial occupants and sharing a common parking facility (lot).
Prior Code Appendix A 219.1)
Section 18.02.165 Building Height
Building height means the vertical distance measured from the average natural ground
level of the highest and lowest portion of the building site covered by the building to the highest
point of the structure, excluding roof-mounted solar energy equipment or systems.
Prior Code Appendix A 220)
Section 18.02.170 Building Site
Building site means:
A. The ground area of one lot; or
B. The ground area of two or more lots when used in combination for a building or
permitted group of buildings, together with all open spaces as required by this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 221)
Section 18.02.175 Building Site Front
Building site front means:
A. In the case of an interior lot, the side fronting the street;
B. In the case of a triangular corner lot, any frontage and all yards other than the front
yard shall be considered side yards;
C. In the case of a double frontage or through lot, both street frontages;
D. In all other cases, the side selected by the owner.
Prior Code Appendix A 222)
Section 18.02.180 Bungalow Court
Bungalow court means a group of three or more detached one story, one-family or
two-family dwellings located upon a single lot, together with all open spaces required by this
title.
Prior Code Appendix A 223)
Section 18.02.182 Bus Bench
Bus bench means a seat located upon public or private property designed or used for
the accommodation of passers-by or persons awaiting transportation.
Ord. No. 93-15, Added, 05/25/93)
Section 18.02.185 Cabana
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (12) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Cabana means any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, small house, room,
enclosure or other building or structure erected, constructed or placed on any trailer site within
six feet of any trailer coach on the same site in a trailer park and used for human habitation.
Cabana does not include awning or a private toilet and bath constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this title and other City ordinances.
Prior Code Appendix A 224)
Section 18.02.186 Cannabis
Cannabis means all parts of the Cannabis plant whether growing or not; the seeds
thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or its resin, irrespective of its form. The
term "cannabis" includes all physical products, compounds, elements, and materials within the
definition of " Cannabis" found in Section 19300.5 of the California Health and Safety Code,
subject to the exclusions set forth therein.
Ord. No. 2019-18, Added, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.188 Cannabis Use
Cannabis use means any primary or accessory use of a building, structure, facility,
premise, land or location involving any one or more of the following: the provision, conveyance,
distribution, delivery, dispatch, cultivation, sale (whether wholesale or retail), storage, laboratory
testing, labeling, processing, preparation, or manufacture of marijuana or other commercial
cannabis activity.
Ord. No. 2019-18, Added, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.190 Cat
Cat means a feline of either sex, altered or unaltered that has reached the age of four
months.
Prior Code Appendix A 224.2)
Section 18.02.195 Cemetery
Cemetery means land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes. Cemeteries include columbariums, mausoleums or
mortuaries, when operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
Crematoriums are not included within the definition of a cemetery.
Prior Code Appendix A 225; Ord. No. 97-5, Amended, 3/25/97)
Section 18.02.197 Check Casher
Check casher means any check casher as that term is defined in Section 1789.31
of the California Civil Code or any successor statute.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.200 Church
Church means a place of religious worship or other related religious activity, excluding
rescue missions and temporary revival churches.
Prior Code Appendix A 225.5)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (13) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.205 Club
Club means an association of persons for some common nonprofit purpose, but not
including groups organized primarily to render a service which is customarily carried on as a
business.
Prior Code Appendix A 226)
Section 18.02.210 College
College means a college, junior college or university supported by public funds, or a
private college, junior college or university which gives comparable general academic instruction
and degrees.
Prior Code Appendix A 227)
Section 18.02.215 Commercial Coach
Commercial coach means a vehicle, with or without motive power, designed and
equipped for human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial purposes, and shall
include a trailer coach.
Prior Code Appendix A 227.5)
Section 18.02.220 Commission
Commission means the City Planning Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 228)
Section 18.02.225 Community Shopping Center
Community shopping center means a large building or cluster of buildings on one or
more lots or building sites containing a mixture of retail commercial activities (usually containing
a junior department store, major food market and a large variety or drugstore), with a gross
floor area of 100,000 square feet or more.
Prior Code Appendix A 228.1)
Section 18.02.230 Convalescent Home
For convalescent home, see residential care home.
Prior Code Appendix A 227.2)
Section 18.02.235 Convenience Market
Convenience market means any retail grocery store ( food market). Such market
may also dispense automotive fuels as an ancillary use.
Prior Code Appendix A 228.5)
Section 18.02.240 County
County means the County of San Diego, State of California.
Prior Code Appendix A 229)
Section 18.02.245 Court
Court means any portion of the interior of a lot or building site other than required
front, side or rear yards which is wholly or partially surrounded by buildings.
Prior Code Appendix A 230)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (14) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.246 Cultivation, Cultivates
Cultivation or  cultivates means any activity, whether indoors or outdoors, involving
the planting (whether in soil or by other means), growing, tending, watering, curing, grading, drying,
trimming, clipping or processing of any kind or size of marijuana plants, or any part thereof.
Ord. No. 2016-7, Added, 6/10/16)
Section 18.02.247 Day Spa
Day spa means a business establishment which people visit specifically for
professionally administered personal care treatments, such as massages and facials, similar to
a beauty salon in that it is only visited for the duration of the treatment. Any massage therapist
operating within a day spa shall be licensed and permitted in accordance with Chapter 5.56
Massage Establishments and Massage Therapists) of the Vista Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.250 Director
Director means the Director of Planning of the City or his duly authorized agent.
Prior Code Appendix A 231)
Section 18.02.255 Dog
Dog means a canine of either sex, altered or unaltered, that has reached the age of
four months.
Prior Code Appendix A 231.1)
Section 18.02.260 Drive-In Facility
Drive-in facility means any portion of a building or structure from which business is
transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with customers located in a motor vehicle
during such business transactions.
Prior Code Appendix A 231.2)
Section 18.02.265 Dump
Dump means an area devoted to the disposal of refuse, including incineration,
reduction or dumping of ashes, garbage, combustible or noncombustible garbage or refuse,
offal or dead animals.
Prior Code Appendix A 232)
Section 18.02.270 Dwelling
Dwelling means a building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes, including one-family, two-family and multiple dwellings, but shall not include hotels,
boardinghouses and lodginghouses.
Prior Code Appendix A 233)
Section 18.02.275 Dwelling, Multiple
Multiple dwelling means a building or portion thereof, or buildings used for
occupancy by three or more families, including necessary servants and employees of each such
families, living independently of each other, and containing three or more dwelling units. Multiple
dwelling shall include apartment houses, bungalow courts, and group houses.
Prior Code Appendix A 237)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (15) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.280 Dwelling, One-Family
One-family dwelling means a detached building or qualifying manufactured home,
set on permanent foundation and provided such housing unit is architecturally compatible with
other housing units in the surrounding neighborhood as well as used exclusively for occupancy
by one family, including necessary domestic employees of such family, and containing one
dwelling unit.
Prior Code Appendix A 235; Ord. No. 2012-5, Amended, 3/27/12)
Section 18.02.285 Dwelling, Two-family
Two-family dwelling means a building used exclusively for occupancy by two families,
including necessary servants and employees of each such families, living independently of each
other and containing two dwelling units.
Prior Code Appendix A 236)
Section 18.02.290 Dwelling Unit
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms in a dwelling or multiple dwelling or apartment
hotel used for occupancy by one family, including necessary servants and employees of such
family, for living or sleeping purposes, and having only one kitchen.
Prior Code Appendix A 234)
Section 18.02.292 Employee Housing
Employee housing means housing for six or fewer employees in accordance with the
California Employee Housing Act set forth in California Health and Safety Code sections 17000
et seq.
Ord. No. 2015-19, Added, 9/22/15)
Section 18.02.293 Emergency Shelter
Emergency shelter means housing with minimal supportive services for homeless
persons that is limited to occupancy of six months or less by a homeless person.
Ord. No. 2012-5, Added, 3/27/12)
Section 18.02.294 Expressly Listed Use
Expressly Listed Use means a use which is expressly included in a written list of uses
permitted within a zoning classification based on the text of an ordinance or specific plan enacted
by the Vista City Council. Expressly listed uses can include uses that are permitted within a
zoning classification upon issuance of a permit such as a minor use permit or special use permit.
Ord. No. 2015-20, Added, 11/10/15)
Section 18.02.295 Family
Family means a group of people who constitute a bona fide single housekeeping unit.
Residents and operators of a residential care facility serving six or fewer persons shall be
considered a family for purposes of any zoning regulation relating to residential use of such
facility.
Prior Code Appendix A 238; Ord. No. 2012-5, Amended, 3/27/12)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (16) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.296 Farm Employee Housing
Farm employee housing" means housing, as defined under California Health and Safety
Code Section 17021.6, which does not exceed 12 units and does not provide more than 36 beds.
Ord. No. 2015-19, Added, 9/22/15)
Section 18.02.300 Fences
A. Fence, Open.  Open fence means a fence, including any gates in the fence,
which permits direct vision through at least 90% of any one square foot segment of vertical
fence surface area; e.g., chain link or woven wire fence without slats.
B. Fence, Protective.  Protective fence means a substantially built fence,
including any gates in the fence, not less than five feet in height, above grade, which may be
required as an enclosure for an attractive nuisance or other potential hazard to children. Such a
fence may be either solid, as defined in this section, or of other substantial construction consisting
of vertical structural members with clear openings between each, not exceeding four inches, and
with horizontal rails or supporting members no closer together than three feet. Chain link or
woven wire fencing materials, with or without slats, may also be utilized, provided they meet
other requirements contained herein. Gates in such a fence shall be self-closing and self-latching
with a latch and lock not less than four and one-half feet above grade. In no case shall a fence
of this classification include design features that would facilitate its ascent or permit the
passage of a childs body as may be determined by the building official.
C. Fence, Safety.  Safety fence means a solid and substantially built fence not
less than eight feet in height, above grade, which shall be placed between any pedestrian way
and a site containing any hazardous condition. Such fence shall be constructed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4407 of the Uniform Building Code (UBC) as adopted by the City.
D. Fence, Solid.  Solid fence means a fence, including any gates in the fence,
constructed of solid material, wood or masonry, through which no visual images may be seen.
Openings in such a fence, with its gates closed, shall not exceed two percent of any one square
foot segment of vertical fence surface area which is more than eight inches above grade.
E. Fence, Visual Screening.  Visual screening fence means a fence, including
any gates in the fence, whose vertical surface is covered by soils or opaque material through
which no complete visual images may be seen. Openings in such fence, with its gates closed,
shall not exceed 20% of any one square foot of vertical fence surface area which is more than
eight inches above grade, nor shall any opening exceed one-half inch in width. Woven wire or
chain link fences containing slats shall not be classified as visual screening fences of a permanent
nature, but may be permitted upon specific approval by the Director of Planning where such
a fence is for temporary, a duration of three years or less, purposes (use) only.
F. Fencing Materials. Barbed wire, razor wire, and similar materials do not constitute
permitted fencing materials and shall not be affixed to any building, structure, improvement or
fence.
Prior Code Appendix A 238.2; Ord. No. 96-7, Amended, 05/14/96; Ord. No. 2003-3, Amended, 01/28/03)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (17) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.305 Fortunetelling
Fortunetelling means and includes telling of fortunes, forecasting of future events or
furnishing of any information not otherwise obtainable by the ordinary process of knowledge, by
means of any occult or psychic power, faculty or force, including, but not limited to clairvoyance,
clairaudience, cartomancy, psychology, psychometry, phrenology, spirits, tea leaves or other
such reading, mediumship, seership, prophecy, augury, astrology, palmistry, necromancy,
mindreading, telepathy or other craft, art, science, cards, talisman, charm, potion, magnetism,
magnetized article or substance, crystal gazing, oriental mysteries or magic, of any kind or
nature.
Prior Code Appendix A 238.4)
Section 18.02.310 Foster Home
For foster home, see residential care home.
Prior Code Appendix A 238.5)
Section 18.02.315 Garage, Private
Garage shall mean an accessory building, as defined by Section 18.02.045, used for
the parking or storage of passenger vehicles by the resident(s) or occupants of the primary
building(s) on the same lot or building site. Where the interior clear dimensions of the garage
exceed the required minimum dimensions of the required number of parking spaces, that area
in excess may be used for other accessory uses as defined by Section 18.02.055.
Prior Code Appendix A 239; Ord. No. 93-26, Amended, 11/23/93)
Section 18.02.320 Garage, Public
Public garage means a building other than a private garage used only for the shelter
or storage of operating motor vehicles, and/or for the care, repair, equipping, hire or sale of such
vehicle.
Prior Code Appendix A 240)
Section 18.02.323 Grade
Grade is the underlying surface such as earth or a walking surface.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.325 Guesthouse
Guesthouse shall mean living quarters within an accessory building for the sole use
of the primary occupants of the premises or for temporary use by guests of the occupants of
premises, which living quarters have no kitchen facilities and are not rented or otherwise used
as a separate dwelling. No guest house shall exceed 700 square feet in gross floor area. No
guest house shall be more than one story in height. It may be located on the top of another
single story accessory structure.
Prior Code Appendix A 241; Ord. No. 91-37, Amended, 11/12/91; Ord. 2012-12, Amended, 10/9/12)
Section 18.02.330 Half-Story
Half-story means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping
roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor area of the floor immediately
below it.
Prior Code Appendix A 242)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (18) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.332 Hiring Hall and/or Labor Center
Hiring hall and/or labor center means any persons, organization, or business
engaged primarily in: 1) hiring persons to perform temporary jobs or short term work, consisting
of one week or less, for third parties; or 2) providing facilities for the purpose of having prospective
employers or contractors hire persons for temporary jobs or short term work, consisting of one
week or less.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.335 Home Occupation
Home occupation means an accessory activity or secondary use of a dwelling unit for
gainful employment, which is conducted entirely within the main dwelling unit, and carried out
only by one or more resident occupants. No persons are employed other than residents of the
dwelling unit. This use does not change the character of the residential area and it is not
disruptive to the neighborhood.
Prior Code Appendix A 243; Ord. No. 2009-2, Amended, 1/13/09)
Section 18.02.337 Hot Tub
See definition of swimming pool.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.340 Hospital
Hospital means  general acute care hospital as defined in accordance with the
provisions of Section 1250 of the State Health and Safety Code.
Prior Code Appendix A 244)
Section 18.02.345 Hospital, Psychiatric
Psychiatric hospital means an  acute psychiatric hospital as defined by Section
1250 of the State Health and Safety Code.
Prior Code Appendix 245)
Section 18.02.350 Hotel
Hotel means a building or group of buildings in which there are six or more
guestrooms where lodging, with or without meals, is provided for compensation, and where no
provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite, but shall not include hospitals,
asylums, nursing or residential care homes, orphanages, prisons, jails, detention homes and
similar facilities where human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Prior Code Appendix A 246)
Section 18.02.351 Hotel, Single-Room Occupancy (SRO)
Single-room occupancy (SRO) hotel means a structure which contains six or more
SRO hotel rooms that can serve single tenants, such as low-income persons, students, and
elderly individuals. An SRO hotel does not include any institution in which persons are housed
or detained under legal restraint or hospitalized or otherwise under medical, nursing or
psychiatric care, or fraternity or sorority houses.
Ord. No. 2012-5, Added, 3/27/12)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (19) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.353 Housing, Supportive
Supportive housing means housing, as more particularly set forth in Government
Code Section 50764.14(b), that is occupied by low income individuals who will receive, as part
of their residency, supportive services designed to assist the individual in retaining housing,
improving health, or enhancing other life functions.
Ord. No. 2012-5, Added, 3/27/12)
Section 18.02.354 Housing, Transitional
Transitional housing means buildings configured as rental housing developments to
be occupied by disabled persons going through rehabilitation, battered/abused women with
dependent children, or persons who were recently homeless where: ( 1) the household
occupying the rental unit may remain in the unit for at least six months; and (2) thereafter, the
household must vacate the unit by a fixed date to permit the unit to be used by a different
household.
Ord. No. 2012-5, Added, 3/27/12)
Section 18.02.355 Intensification of Land Use or Activity
Intensification of land use or activity means:
A. The addition of substantial activities and/or services within an approved (existing)
facility or building wherein said activities or services were not indicated, or provided for, by an
approved site development plan. It may be identified by the conversion of warehouse floor area
as defined or identified on an approved site development plan to use as retail commercial or
professional office spaces, or similar conversions, which are subject to more stringent
development standards and/or requirements;
B. The addition of a substantial retail sales activity not specifically provided for by an
approved special use permit ( e.g., the addition of a prepared food and beverage sales activity
within an automotive service station); or
C. The establishment of a new or additional use in an existing facility that results in
a substantial increase in traffic generation over that of the original land use or activity.
Prior Code Appendix 246.5)
Section 18.02.360 Kennel
Kennel means a lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or wherein
are kept nine or more dogs, cats or similar domestic animals in any combination, for more than
ten days, whether such keeping is for pleasure, profit, breeding or exhibiting, and including
places where dogs, cats or similar animals in any combination are boarded, kept for sale or kept
for hire.
Prior Code Appendix A 247)
Section 18.02.365 Kitchen
Kitchen means any room used or intended or designed to be used for cooking or the
preparation of food, including any room having a sink and either a three-fourths-inch gas
opening or provision for an electric stove.
Prior Code Appendix A 248)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (20) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.370 Landscaping
Landscaping means, unless otherwise defined elsewhere in this title, the planting,
including replanting in case of death, disease, disfigurement or dismemberment, of live trees,
shrubs and groundcover (which shall be defined as grass or other durable plant life cover which
can survive human foot traffic) which, at the time of planting, are healthy, vigorous and free of
diseases, and of a species that is able to thrive in the environment and soil type in which it is
planted, and maintenance thereof sufficient to sustain plant life, including an automatic irrigation
system with a useful life of not less than ten years. Landscaping shall not include trees of less
than 15 gallon or 30 inch box size at the time of planting and shrubs of less than 5 gallon size.
Prior Code Appendix A 248.1)
Section 18.02.372 Lawful Use
Lawful use means an expressly listed use, provided that: (1) all permits or approvals
required to lawfully establish that use have been first secured; (2) those permits or approvals were
obtained without misrepresentation; and (3) those permits or approvals have not lapsed, expired,
been suspended, or been revoked.
Ord. No. 2015-20, Added, 11/10/15)
Section 18.02.375 Light Pollution
Light pollution means the artificial illumination of particles in the earths atmosphere
that impairs celestial observation.
Prior Code Appendix A 248.5)
Section 18.02.380 Loading Space
Loading space means an area, other than a street or alley, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings not less than 10 feet wide, 35 feet long, and 14 feet high which
affords adequate ingress and egress for trucks from a public street or alley, and which is
permanently reserved and maintained for the temporary parking of commercial vehicles while
loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
Prior Code Appendix A 249)
Section 18.02.382 Local Cannabis License
Local cannabis license means any of the following: 1) a notice of completed
registration issued for a medical cannabis business pursuant to Chapter 5.94, whether or not
paired with a delivery license pursuant to Chapter 5.96; 2) a cannabis testing facility licensed
pursuant to Chapter 5.98; 3) a cannabis distribution facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 5.98;
and 4) a cannabis manufacturing facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 5.98.
Ord. No. 2019-18, Added, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.385 Lot 
Lot means:
A. A parcel of real property shown as a delineated parcel of land with a number or
other designation on a final map of subdivision recorded in the Office of the County Recorder;
B. A parcel of land which was a recorded parcel separate from any adjacent parcel
of land and was indicated as a separate parcel on the records of the County Assessor on
January 28, 1963, provided such parcel has legally recorded access to a public street, either
directly or by way of an access strip at least 20 feet in width (or pursuant to variance granted
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (21) ( Vista 1/8/21)
pursuant to Chapter 18.74, at least ten feet in width), which is topographically traversable by
vehicular traffic;
C. A parcel of land created subsequent to January 28, 1963, pursuant to a division
of land plat approved by the Countys Director of Planning prior to January 28, 1963; or
D. A parcel of land created subsequent to January 28, 1963, pursuant to a division
of land plat or parcel map approved by the Citys Director of Planning, and, in the case of a
parcel map, duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
Prior Code Appendix A 250)
Section 18.02.390 Lot Area
Lot area means the total area exclusive of streets within the boundary lines of a lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 251)
Section 18.02.395 Lot, Corner
Corner lot means a lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, which
streets have an angle of intersection of not more than 135 degrees.
Prior Code Appendix A 252)
Section 18.02.400 Lot Depth
Lot depth means the horizontal length of a straight line connecting the bisecting
points of the front and the rear lot lines.
Prior Code Appendix A 253)
Section 18.02.405 Lot, Interior
Interior lot means a lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 254)
Section 18.02.410 Lot, Key
Key lot means the first lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot, whether or not
separated by an alley.
Prior Code Appendix A 255)
Section 18.02.415 Lot Line, Front
Front lot line means the line separating the front of the lot from the street. When a lot
or building site is bounded by a public street and one or more alleys or private street easements
or private streets, the front lot line shall be the nearest right-of-way line of the public street.
Prior Code Appendix A 256)
Section 18.02.420 Lot Line, Rear
Rear lot line means the record lot line or lines most distant from and generally
opposite the front lot line, except that in the case of an interior triangular or gore-shaped lot, it
means a straight line ten feet in length which:
A. Is parallel to the front lot line or its chord; and
B. Intersects the two other lot lines at points most distant from the front lot line.
Prior Code Appendix A 257)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (22) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.425 Lot Line, Side
Side lot line means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
Prior Code Appendix A 258)
Section 18.02.430 Lot, Reversed Corner
Reversed corner lot means a corner lot, the side street line of which is substantially a
continuation of the front lot line of the lot upon which the rear of such corner lot abuts.
Prior Code Appendix A 259)
Section 18.02.435 Lot, Through
Through lot means a lot having a frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets. (Prior Code Appendix A 260)
Section 18.02.440 Lot Width
Lot width means the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the line comprising the depth of the lot at a point midway between the front and rear
lot lines.
Prior Code Appendix A 261)
Section 18.02.443 Manufactured Home, Qualifying
Qualifying manufactured home means a manufactured home certified under the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 ( 42 U.S.C.
Secs. 5401 et seq.) which is placed on a foundation system, pursuant to Section 18551 of the
Health and Safety Code and which was manufactured within ten years of the date of the
application for installation of the manufactured home.
Ord. No. 2012-5, Added, 3/27/12)
Section 18.02.445 Manufacturing, General
General manufacturing means general industrial activities of light to moderate labor
intensity that do not employ a large number of employees in relation to the land or gross
building area of the site upon which the activity is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 261.5)
Section 18.02.446A Marijuana
Ord. 2015-20, Added 11/10/15; Ord. 2019-18, Deleted, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.446B Marijuana-Related Use
Ord. 2015-20, Added 11/10/15; Ord. 2019-18, Deleted, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.447  Massage Establishment or Massage Business
Massage Establishment or  Massage Business shall mean any fixed place of
business, whether operated by a business, corporation, partnership, person, organization, or sole
proprietorship, where any person engages in, conducts, or carries on, or permits to be engaged
in, conducted, or carried on, any business of giving massage, administration of fomentation,
electric or magnetic treatments, alcohol rubs, or any other type of system for treatment or
manipulation of the human body. The term, Massage establishment or massage business
excludes those locations where all massage services are provided by persons or under the
supervision of persons described in the subparagraphs (B)(1) through (B)(8) of Vista Municipal
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (23) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Code Section 5.56.040.
Ord. No. 2015-8, Added, 5/12/15)
Section 18.02.448 Medical Marijuana Land Use or Medical Marijuana Business
Ord. No. 2015-20, Added 11/10/15; Ord. No. 2019-18, Deleted, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.450 Mobile Home
Mobile home means any residential structure certified under the National Mobile Home
Safety Standards Act of 1974, or any subsequent national or state standards regulating such
structures superseding such act.
Prior Code Appendix A 261.9)
Section 18.02.455 Mobile Home Park
Mobile home park means any trailer park, as defined in Section 18.02.690, where
occupancy is restricted to coach owners who stay in the park on a month-to-month basis.
Prior Code Appendix A 262)
Section 18.02.460 Motel or Tourist Court
Motel or  Tourist court means a group of attached or detached buildings containing
individual sleeping or living units where a majority of such units open individually and directly to
the outside, and where a garage is attached or a parking space is conveniently located to each
unit, all for the temporary use by automobile tourists or transients, and such words include auto
courts and motor lodges.
Prior Code Appendix A 263)
Section 18.02.465 Motor Vehicle Sales Facility, New or Used
A.  New motor vehicle sales facility means a retail sales facility wherein the
primary activity is the retail sales, leasing and/or rental, of new vehicles, as defined by the
California Vehicle Code, Section 430, and service of motor vehicles (new or used) by a new
motor vehicle dealer, as defined by the California Vehicle Code, Section 426. Used vehicles, as
defined by the California Vehicle Code, Section 665, may also be sold at retail from such facility
as an ancillary activity.
B.  Used motor vehicle sales facility means a retail sales facility wherein the
primary activity is the retail sales, leasing and/or rental of used vehicles, as defined by the
California Vehicle Code, Section 665, by a vehicle dealer, as defined by the California Vehicle
Code, Section 285.
Prior Code Appendix A 263.2)
Section 18.02.470 Neighborhood Shopping Center
Neighborhood shopping center means a large building or cluster of buildings on
one or more lots or building sites containing a mixture of retail commercial activities ( usually
containing a major food market, a variety or drugstore with a limited number of service type
uses), with a gross floor area between 20,000 and 100,000 square feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 263.5)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (24) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.475 Night Sky
Night sky means and is a term used to define the hours of darkness, from 45 minutes
after sunset to 45 minutes before sunrise, during which observation of celestial objects may be
effectively conducted.
Prior Code Appendix A 263.7)
Section 18.02.480 Nonconforming Building
Nonconforming building means a building, or portion thereof, which was lawfully
erected or altered and maintained, but which, because of the application of this title to it, no
longer conforms to the use, height, yard, setback or area regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
Prior Code Appendix A 264)
Section 18.02.485 Nonconforming Use
Nonconforming use means a use which was lawfully established and maintained,
but which, because of the application of this title to it, no longer conforms to the use regulations
of the zone in which it is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 265)
Section 18.02.490 Open Space, Common Usable
Common usable open space means recreational land areas within a multiple-dwelling
unit project, including PRDs (planned residential developments) and condominium housing that is
not occupied or intruded upon by any structures ( playground equipment, shade structures,
decorative trellises and similar complementary structures excepted). Such open space may be
classified as passive or active land areas that may be accessed and utilized by residents of all
ages. Common usable open space areas must be surfaced with lawn, pavers, decking, sportcourt-
type surface, and other materials that allow the area to be used for recreation purposes.
Typical common usable open space amenities include, but are not limited to, pools and spas, tot
lots, fire pit/lounge areas, pedestrian trails, and sport courts. Common usable space does not
include land areas occupied by streets, driveways, parking areas, service areas, storm water
basins, or recreation buildings. Sidewalks are not considered part of the common usable open
space unless located within or adjacent to recreational areas, or designed as part of an open space
trail system.
Prior Code Appendix A 266.1; Ord. No. 2017-17, Amended, 10/24/17)
Section 18.02.495 Open Space, Private Usable
Private usable open space means areas within a multiple-dwelling project not
occupied or intruded upon by any structure which are devoted exclusively to the private recreation
and leisure use of the residents of one dwelling unit, and shall not include any space within a
dwelling unit.
Prior Code Appendix A 266.2)
Section 18.02.500 Ornamental Birds or Songbirds
Ornamental birds or  songbirds mean any bird not otherwise defined as poultry,
including, but not limited to parakeets, finches, canaries, parrots and other exotic tropical birds.
Prior Code Appendix A 266.3)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (25) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.505 Parcel of Land
Parcel of land means a contiguous quantity of land in the possession of, or owned by,
or recorded as the property of the same person.
Prior Code Appendix A 267)
Section 18.02.510 Parking Area
Parking area means an open area, other than a street or alley, which contains more
than four parking spaces.
Prior Code Appendix A 268)
Section 18.02.515 Parking Space
Parking space means an open space or area exclusive of a street, alley, easement or
driveway, not less than 10 feet wide and 20 feet long provided with adequate ingress and
egress, and which is permanently reserved and maintained for the parking of motor vehicles.
Prior Code Appendix A 269)
Section 18.02.520 Parking Space, Covered
Covered parking space or  Covered and enclosed parking space means parking
spaces in a garage or carport with a minimum clear floor space, exclusive of walls, structures
and floor areas designated or designed for other uses, on a minimum width of 10 feet and a
minimum length of 20 feet for each vehicle to be stored therein.
Prior Code Appendix A 269.1)
Section 18.02.522 Pawn Shop
Pawn shop is a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer business.  Pawnbroker means
every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of loaning money, either for
himself or for any other person upon any personal property or personal security being purchased
and resold to the vendor or other assignee at prices previously agreed upon.  Secondhand
dealer means every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of buying and
selling used jewelry, watches, diamonds, clothing, musical instruments, luggage, sporting goods,
furniture, junk and secondhand automobiles.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.525 Person
Person means any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association, social
club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, this and any other
county, city and county, city, municipality, district or other political subdivision, or any other
group or combination acting as a unit.
Prior Code Appendix A 270)
Section 18.02.530 Pets
Pets mean any animal that is kept and cared for, which keeping is for companionship,
protection or adornment of a home. Pets shall include, but not be limited to: dogs, cats,
ornamental birds or songbirds, fish, or small animals kept in a cage, such as hamsters, white
mice, reptiles, etc. Pets shall not include poultry or animals kept for profit or sale, or animals not
permitted by the laws of the state or county.
Prior Code Appendix A 270.2)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (26) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.535 Planning Commission
Planning Commission means the Planning Commission of the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 271)
Section 18.02.538 Pot-Bellied Pig
A  pot-bellied pig shall have the same meaning as given in Section 6.07.055 of the Vista
Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 97-16, Added, 08/26/97)
Section 18.02.540 Poultry
Poultry means domestic fowl, including hens, ducks, turkeys and peafowl; but
excluding roosters and ornamental birds such as parakeets, canaries, finches, and similar types.
Hens means female poultry.
Prior Code Appendix A 278.5; Ord. No. 2017-17, Amended, 10/24/17)
Section 18.02.542 Primary Use(s)
Primary use(s) means the one or more significant uses which: ( 1) have been
established on or in a building, structure, facility, premises, land, or location; or (2) which a person
or entity plans to establish on or in a building, structure, facility, premises, land, or location. By
way of example, a parcel in the M-U zone, as of the date of this ordinance, could have a single
building operated by one party which includes a museum, restaurant, and gift shop. That single
building, although under one management, would consist of three primary uses. A primary use is
not an accessory use.
Ord. No. 2015-20, Added, 11/10/15)
Section 18.02.545 Recycling Collection Facility, Large
Large recycling collection facility means one of any combination of collection facilities
which occupies an area of 500 square feet or more; e.g., reverse vending machines, collection
bins, kiosks, truck trailers, or collection vans.
Prior Code Appendix A 271.1)
Section 18.02.550 Recycling Collection Facility, Small
Small recycling collection facility means one or any combination of collection facilities
that occupy an area of less than 500 square feet; e.g., reverse vending machines, collection
bins, kiosks, truck trailers, or collection vans.
Prior Code Appendix A 271.3)
Section 18.02.555 Recycling Processing Facility, Large
Large recycling processing facility means a processing facility for recyclable
materials which occupies one or more acres.
Prior Code Appendix A 271.2)
Section 18.02.560 Recycling Processing Facility, Small
Small recycling processing facility means processing facilities for recyclable
materials which occupy less than one acre.
Prior Code Appendix A 271.4)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (27) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.02.565 Regional Shopping Center
Regional shopping center means a large building or cluster of buildings on one or
more lots or building sites containing a mixture of retail commercial activities (usually containing
at least one major department store with 50 to 100 satellite shops and facilities), with a gross
floor area in excess of 100,000 square feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 271.5)
Section 18.02.566 Rehabilitative Mental Health Services Facility
Rehabilitative mental health services facility means and is defined as a
facility that provides any of the following mental health service activities, as defined by
the referenced section of Title 9 of the California Code of Regulations, for land use
purposes:
A.  Day Treatment Intensive means a structured, multi-disciplinary program
of therapy which may be an alternative to hospitalization, avoid placement in a more
restrictive setting, or maintain the individual in a community setting, which provides mental
health services to a distinct group of individuals. The mental health services are available
at least three hours and less than 24 hours each day the program is open. Service
activities may include, but are not limited to, assessment, plan development, therapy,
rehabilitation and collateral. (Section 1810.213, Title 9 California Code of Regulations).
B.  Day Rehabilitation means a structured program of rehabilitation and
therapy to improve, maintain or restore personal independence and functioning,
consistent with requirements for learning and development, which provides mental health
services to a distinct group of individuals. The mental health services are available at least
three hours and less than 24 hours each day the program is open. Services activities may
include, but are not limited to, assessment, plan development, therapy, rehabilitation and
collateral. (Section 1810.212, Title 9 California Code of Regulations).
C.  Crisis intervention means a mental health service, lasting less than 24
hours, to or on behalf of a beneficiary for a condition that requires more timely response
than a regularly scheduled visit. Service activities may include, but are not limited to, one
or more of the following: assessment, collateral and therapy. Crisis intervention is
distinguished from crisis stabilization by being delivered by providers who do not meet the
crisis stabilization contact, site, and staffing requirements described in Sections 1840.338
and 1840.348 of Title 9 of the California Code of Regulations. (Section 1810.209, Title 9
California Code of Regulations).
D.  Crisis stabilization means a mental health service, lasting less than 24
hours, to or on behalf of a beneficiary for a condition that requires more timely response
than a regularly scheduled visit. Service activities may include, but are not limited to, one
or more of the following: assessment, collateral and therapy. Crisis stabilization is
distinguished from crisis intervention by being delivered by providers who do meet the
crisis stabilization contact, site, and staffing requirements described in Sections 1840.338
and 1840.348 of Title 9 of the California Code of Regulations. (Section 1810.210, Title 9
California Code of Regulations).
Ord. No. 2020-14, Added, 12/08/20)
Section 18.02.570 Research and Development
Research and development means a research or industrial activity which includes, in
addition to those activities which specialize in or are devoted solely to experimental laboratory
experiment or the development of experimental or prototypical equipment or projects, those that
employ a highly technical staff in the chemical, aerospace, pharmaceutical, electronics, or other
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (28) ( Vista 1/8/21)
similar specialized fields that are labor intensive and employ a large number of employees in
relation to the land or gross building area of the site upon which the activity is located.
Prior Code Appendix 272.5)
Section 18.02.575 Residential Care Home
Residential care home means and is defined as any of the following facilities or
activities, as defined by the referenced section of the State Health and Safety Code, for land
use purposes; however, it excludes hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted to the diagnosis
and treatment of disease or injury, maternal (obstetrics) cases or mental illness.
Congregate living health facility means a facility which provides 24-hour inpatient
care to persons whose primary need is for availability of skilled nursing care on a recurring,
intermittent, extended or continuous basis (Section 1250(j), State Health and Safety Code).
Foster family home means any residential facility providing 24-hour care for six or
fewer foster children (Section 1502(a)(5), State Health and Safety Code).
Intermediate care facility means a facility that provides inpatient care to ambulatory
or nonambulatory patients who have recurring need for skilled nursing supervision and need
supportive care, but who do not require availability of, or continuous, skilled nursing care. This
also includes intermediate care facilities/developmentally disabled habilitative and intermediate
care facilities/developmentally disabled (Section 1250(e) and (g) respectively, State Health and
Safety Code).
Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled means a facility which provides
24-hour personal care, developmental services, and nursing supervision for developmentally
disabled persons who have intermittent recurring needs for skilled nursing care (Section 1250(h),
State Health and Safety Code).
Residential facility means any family home, group care facility, or similar facility
providing for 24-hour nonmedical care of persons in need of personal services, supervision, or
other assistance essential to sustaining the activities of daily living ( Section 1502(a)(1), State
Health and Safety Code).
Residential care facility for the elderly means a group housing arrangement for
residents over 60, but may also include persons under 60 with compatible needs, who are
provided varying levels and intensities of care and supervision based upon their varying needs
Section 1269.2(j) and (k), State Health and Safety Code).
Skilled nursing facility means and provides skilled nursing care and supportive care
to patients whose primary need is for availability of skilled nursing care on an extended basis
Section 1250(c), State Health and Safety Code).
Small family home means any residential facility providing 24-hour care for six or
fewer foster children (Section 1502(a)(6), State Health and Safety Code).
Prior Code Appendix A 271.9)
Section 18.02.580 Residential Hotel
Residential hotel means a building or group of buildings used for hotel purposes
having a gross coverage not exceeding 40% of the building site and providing no outside
entrances for business purposes and using no street frontage for business or business displays.
Prior Code Appendix A 272)
Section 18.02.585 Resort Hotel
Resort hotel means a building or group of buildings used for hotel purposes on a
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (29) ( Vista 1/8/21)
building site which contains at least five acres, having a gross coverage not exceeding 20% of
the building site, providing no outside entrances for business purposes, providing no outside
business displays, and having not more than one identification sign which does not exceed 20
square feet in area.
Prior Code Appendix A 273)
Section 18.02.590 Rest Home
For rest home, see  residential care home.
Prior Code Appendix A 274)
Section 18.02.595 Reverse Vending Machine, Bulk
Bulk reverse vending machine means a large standard reverse vending machine,
typically ranging from 50 to 90 cubic feet in bulk and up to eight to ten feet in height.
Prior Code Appendix A 274.6)
Section 18.02.600 Reverse Vending Machine, Standard
Standard reverse vending machine means a vending machine which receives
recyclable containers and refunds money and/or redeemable credit slips for each container
deposited therein.
Prior Code Appendix A 274.5)
Section 18.02.605 Sanatorium or Sanitarium
For sanatorium or sanitarium, see  residential care home.
Prior Code Appendix A 275)
Section 18.02.610 Section
Section means a section of this title unless some other ordinance, code or statute is
indicated.
Prior Code Appendix A 276)
Section 18.02.615 Schools, Elementary, Junior High and High
Elementary, junior high and high schools means an institution of learning which
offers instruction in the several branches of learning and study required to be taught in the
public schools by the Education Code of the State and in which no pupil is physically restrained.
Prior Code Appendix A 277)
Section 18.02.620 Scrap Metal Processor
Scrap metal processor means and is defined as one who, from a fixed location,
utilizes machinery and equipment for processing and manufacturing iron, steel or nonferrous
metallic scrap into prepared grades and whose principal products are scrap iron, scrap steel or
nonferrous metallic scrap for sale for remelting purposes. This use shall not be construed as
having storage of junk or as falling under the category of a wrecking yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 277.3)
Section 18.02.623 Semi-Rural Street
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (30) ( Vista 1/8/21)
A Semi-Rural Street means a Circulation Element Street with projected 2030 Average
Daily Traffic Volumes of 7,900 or fewer trips, or a local public street in zones A-1, E-1, and R-1
with semi-rural character as designated by the City Planner. The elements of a semi- rural
character area include, but are not limited to: housing units that have individual architectural
styles; limited animal husbandry and agricultural uses interspersed with residential development;
tree-lined and winding country roads; presence of open space, natural creeks, undisturbed
ridge lines and undeveloped hillsides.
Ord. No. 2007-12, Added, 8/14/07)
Section 18.02.624 Smoke Shop
Smoke shop means a retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of any
one or combination of the following: (1) tobacco; (2) tobacco derivatives; (3) non-tobacco
substances produced for purposes of smoking; and (4) any type of paraphernalia or accessory
manufactured or sold for the purpose of smoking, ingesting, preparing, or storing any of the
preceding. No smoking of tobacco or any other product shall occur on any portion of the
premises owned, rented, controlled, used, or operated by a smoke shop.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09; Ord. No. 2009-12, Amended, 4/14/09)
Section 18.02.625 Smoking Lounge
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09; Ord. No. 2009-12, Repealed, 4/14/09)
Section 18.02.626 Solar Access Corridor
Solar access corridor means and includes all that area above and between the arc
created by the angle of the sun on December 21st, between the hours of nine a.m. and three
p.m., Pacific Standard Time.
Prior Code Appendix A 277.5)
Section 18.02.630 Solar Collector
Solar collector means any device or combination of devices or other elements which
relies upon sunlight as an energy source.
Prior Code Appendix A 277.6)
Section 18.02.635 Solar Energy System
Solar energy system means equipment associated with the collection, transfer,
distribution, storage, space conditioning, electricity production, process heat and mechanical
energy.
Prior Code Appendix A 277.7)
Section 18.02.637 Spa
See definition of swimming pool.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.638 Spa, Portable
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (31) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Portable Spa is a nonpermanent structure intended for recreational bathing, in which
all controls, water-heating and water-circulating equipment are an integral part of the product
and which is cord connected (not permanently electrically wired).
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.640 Stable, Private
Private stable means an accessory building in which, or premises upon which, horses
owned by the occupants of the premises are kept, and in or upon which no horses are kept for
hire or sale.
Prior Code Appendix A 278)
Section 18.02.645 Stable, Public
Public stable means a stable other than a private stable.
Prior Code Appendix A 279)
Section 18.02.650 Stand
Stand means a structure for the display and sale of farm products with no space for
customers within the structure itself.
Prior Code Appendix A 280)
Section 18.02.653 Store, Tobacco
Tobacco store means a retail establishment which primarily sells some or all of the
following:
A. Tobacco products;
B. Tobacco-related products; and
C. Paraphernalia that is designed for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco.
Ord. No. 97-12, Added, 06/10/97)
Section 18.02.655 Story
Story means that portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then the space between such
floor and the ceiling next above it shall be considered a story.
Prior Code Appendix A 281)
Section 18.02.660 Street
Street means a county road, state highway, public road, street or alley, or private
thoroughfare not less than ten feet in width connecting with a county road, state highway, public
road, street or alley which affords primary access to an abutting lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 282)
Section 18.02.665 Street Line
Street line means the boundary line between a street and the abutting property.
Prior Code Appendix A 283)
Section 18.02.670 Street, Side
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (32) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Side street means a street which is adjacent to a corner lot and which extends in the
general direction of the line determining the depth of the lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 284)
Section 18.02.675 Structural Alterations
Structural alterations means any change in the supporting members of a building
such as foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams, floor or roof joists, girders or rafters, or
changes in roof or exterior lines.
Prior Code Appendix A 286)
Section 18.02.680 Structure
Structure means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground. Structure shall include
immobilized trailer coaches.
Prior Code Appendix A 285)
Section 18. 02.681 Supportive Housing
Supportive housing" means housing, which has no limit on the length of stay, which is
linked to on-site or off-site services serving a target population in retaining housing, improving the
health of the residents, or maximizing the ability of residents to live and work in the community.
Target population means persons, including persons with disabilities, and families who are
homeless" or who are "homeless youth".
Ord. No. 2015-19, Added, 09/22/15)
Section 18.02.682 Swimming Pool
Swimming pool is any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing that
contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground and on-ground
swimming pools, hot tubs, spas and portable spas. Location of swimming pools shall be governed
by Section 18.58.270 of this title.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96; Ord. No. 2020-1, Amended, 01/14/20)
Section 18.02.683 Swimming Pool, Indoor
Indoor swimming pool is a swimming pool which is totally contained within a
residential structure and surrounded on all four sides by walls of said structure.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.684 Swimming Pool, Outdoor
Outdoor swimming pool is any swimming pool which is not an indoor pool.
Ord. No. 96-7, Added, 05/14/96)
Section 18.02.685 Tattoo Parlor
Tattoo parlor means a business establishment where a person can obtain a tattoo
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (33) ( Vista 1/8/21)
and/or body piercing.  Tattoo means any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other
mark that is placed on or under the skin with ink or colors by the aid of needles or other
instruments and that cannot be removed without a surgical procedure or any design, letter,
scroll, figure or symbol or other mark done by scarring on or under the skin.  Body piercing
means creating an opening in the body using a sharp object through the area to be pierced.
This procedure can either be done by cutting an opening using a needle ( usually a hollow
medical needle) or scalpel.
Ord. No. 2009-3, Added, 2/10/09)
Section 18.02.686 Trailer Coach
Trailer coach means any camp car, trailer or other vehicle, with or without motive
power, designed and constructed to travel on the public thoroughfares at the maximum allowable
speed limit and in accordance with the provisions of the Vehicle Code, and designed or used for
human habitation.
Prior Code Appendix A 288)
Section 18.02.690 Transient Trailer Court or Transient Trailer Park
Transient trailer court or  transient trailer park means any premises on which
there is located one or more occupied trailer coaches, or where space for trailer coaches is
rented, held for rent, or on which free occupancy or camping is permitted to trailer coach users,
providing such trailer court or trailer park accepts coaches for occupancy by coach owners who
stay in the park on a day-to-day basis, but shall not include premises on which unoccupied
trailer coaches are parked for inspection and sale or premises on which there is one occupied
trailer coach occupied by the owner thereof and for which there is a valid, unexpired and
unrevoked permit issued by the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 289)
Section 18.02.695 Transit Shelter
Transit shelter shall mean a structure designed to provide shelter from the natural
elements for persons utilizing public transit. Such structure may provide only overhead; a
roofed structure open on all sides, or may provide an overhead and directional shelter, a roofed
structure, partially enclosed on one or more sides; however, such structure shall be required to
have at least one side open, and in the case that said shelter faces a street, the street side shall
not be enclosed. A transit shelter may enclose or cover a bus bench as defined by Section
18.02.182. When a bus bench is so enclosed or covered, the combination shall be included in
the term transit shelter.
Prior Code Appendix A 288.5; Ord. No. 93-15, Amended, 05/25/93)
Section 18.02.696 Unauthorized Cannabis Use
Unauthorized cannabis use means any cannabis use other than an authorized
cannabis use.
Ord. No. 2019-18, Added, 12/10/19)
Section 18.02.697 Unlawful Use
Unlawful use means any primary or accessory use which is not a lawful use.
Ord. No. 2015-20, Added, 11/10/15)
Section 18.02.700 Use(s)
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (34) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Use(s) means the purpose or purposes for which: ( 1) land or improvements are
arranged, designed, or intended; or (2) for which land or improvements may be occupied or
maintained. A use may qualify as a primary use or an accessory use.
Prior Code Appendix A 290; Ord. No. 2015-20, Added, 11/10/15)
Section 18.02.705 Variance
Variance means an administrative act to permit a variance from the strict application
of the regulations of a particular zoning district and to provide a reasonable use for a parcel of
property having unique characteristics by virtue of its size, location, design or topographical
features, and its relationship to adjacent or surrounding properties and developments. The
purpose of the variance is to bring a particular parcel up to parity with other property in the same
zoning district and vicinity insofar as a reasonable use is concerned, and it is not to grant any
special privileges or concessions not enjoyed by other properties in the same zoning district and
vicinity. The variance may not be used to correct improper zoning or permit a use not currently
authorized.
Prior Code Appendix A 291)
Section 18.02.710 Yard
Yard means an open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 292)
Section 18.02.715 Yard, Front
Front yard means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, having at no point
a depth of less than the minimum required horizontal distance between the front lot line, or its
tangent, and the closest permissible location of the main building. Such distance shall be
measured by a line at right angles to the front lot line, or its tangent.
Prior Code Appendix A 293)
Section 18.02.720 Yard, Rear
Rear yard means a yard extending across the full width of a lot, having at no point a
depth of less than the minimum required horizontal distance as measured from the part of the
main building nearest the rear lot line towards the rear lot line, and such measurement shall be
along a line representing the shortest distance between such part of the main building and rear
lot line. The required rear yard shall be that portion of the rear yard contiguous to the rear lot
line having at no point a depth less than that required for the rear yard. The area to the rear of
the rear lot line of an interior triangular or gore-shaped lot shall be considered a part of the
required rear yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 295)
Section 18.02.725 Yard, Rear Line of Required Front
Rear line of required front yard means a line parallel to the front lot line and at a
distance there from equal to the depth of the required front yard, and extending across the full
width of the lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 294)
Section 18.02.730 Yard, Side
Vista Municipal Code
18.02 (35) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Side yard means a yard between the main building and the side lot lines extending
from the required front yard, or the front lot line where no front yard is required, to the rear yard,
the width of which side yard shall be measured horizontally from, and at right angles to, the
nearest point of a side lot line towards the nearest part of a main building.
Prior Code Appendix A 296)
Section 18.02.735 Zone
Zone means any one of the classes of zones established by this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 297)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 04
General Requirements
Sections:
18. 04.010 Application for Zone Changes - Commission Authority
18. 04.020 Application Signatures - Evidence of Notice
18. 04.030 Filing Fees
18. 04.040 Waiver of Fees
18. 04.050 Public Hearings - Setting of Date
18. 04.060 Public Hearings - Notice Requirements
18. 04.070 Required Wording and Size of Notices
18. 04.080 Combined Proceedings
18. 04.090 Investigation of Facts
18. 04. 100 Conduct of Hearings - Rules Established
18. 04. 110 Conduct of Hearings - Administering Authority
18. 04. 120 Filing of Recommendation - Action by Commission
18. 04. 130 Continuation of Hearing
18. 04. 140 Withdrawal of Application - Refund of Fees
18. 04. 150 Appeals
18. 04. 160 City Projects
18. 04. 170 Certificates of Occupancy
Section 18.04.010 Application for Zone Changes - Commission Authority
The Planning Commission shall prescribe the form in which applications shall be made
for changes in zone boundaries or classifications, or for variance or special use permits. It may
prepare and provide blanks for such purpose and may prescribe the type of information to be
submitted in the application by the applicant. No application shall be accepted unless it
complies with such requirements.
Prior Code Appendix A 2401)
Section 18.04.020 Application Signatures - Evidence of Notice
If signatures of persons other than the owners of property making the application are
required or offered in support of, or in opposition to, an application, they may be received as
evidence of notice having been served upon them of the pending application, and/ or as
evidence of their opinion on the pending issue, but they shall in no case infringe upon the free
exercise of the powers vested in the Planning Commission or the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2403)
Section 18. 04.030 Filing Fees
Filing fees for a reclassification or amendment as provided for in this title, shall be set by
resolution by the City Council for the purpose of defraying the expense of investigation, postage,
posting, advertising and other costs incidental to the proceedings prescribed herein.
Prior Code A 2404)
Section 18. 04.040 Waiver of Fees
Upon the written request of an applicant, when the City Council finds that the necessity
18. 04 ( l) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
for a variance is the result of the dedication or granting, without receipt of substantial monetary
consideration, of a portion of the property for public purposes the Council may waive the fee for
filing the application for variance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2406)
Section 18. 04.050 Public Hearings - Setting of Date
A. All applications for amendment to zone boundaries or classification of property
uses within such zones as are defined by this title, or applications for variances or special use
permits as provided in this title, shall be set by the Director of Planning for public hearing when
such hearings are to be held before the Planning Commission and by the City Clerk for hearings
to be held by the City Council.
B. The date of the first of the hearings shall be not less than ten days or more than
50 days from the time of the filing of the application or the adoption of the order upon which
such hearing is predicated.
Prior Code Appendix A 2407)
Section 18.04.060 Public Hearings - Notice Requirements
Notice of the time and place of public hearings shall be given at least ten calendar days
before the public hearing as provided in this section. Such notice shall include a general
description of the matter to be considered and a general description of the area affected.
A. Notice of any public hearing to consider any proposed amendment to this title or
the General Plan shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation,
published and circulated in the city; and in addition thereto, notice of any public hearing upon
such an amendment which includes a change in the zoning map or General Plan and any
change in zoning classification or General Plan designation, shall be mailed or delivered to all
persons, including businesses, corporations or other public or private entities shown in the last
equalized assessment roll as owning real property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of
the property which is the subject of the proposed hearing at their addresses as shown on the
last equalized assessment roll, and by posting such notice in one conspicuous place either on
the property which is the subject of such hearing, or in the public street adjacent to such
property and not more than 50 feet away from the exterior boundaries of such property.
B. For purposes of this section, a City project consists of any project or structure to be
built, constructed, erected, or installed by or on behalf of the City or the Buena Sanitation
District located on real property that is owned, leased or controlled by the City or the Buena
Sanitation District where: ( 1) the project or structure will be exclusively or primarily used by the
City or the Buena Sanitation District; or (2) the project or structure will be partly used by the City
or Buena Sanitation District, with such other usage as the City Council finds will further the
public, welfare, or fiscal interests of the City of Vista or the Buena Sanitation District. Land or
buildings shall be deemed owned, leased or controlled by the City or Buena Sanitation District,
although the land is owned, leased, or controlled by a joint facilities financing authority or similar
entity acting on behalf of the City or the Buena Sanitation District.
C. Except to the extent that state or national standards may require otherwise, all
City projects shall be constructed in accordance with the development standards set forth in the
Vista Development Code or in the case of signs on City property as defined in section
18. 52.020, in accordance with Chapter 12.20. The City Council shall be permitted to approve a
height limit for a City project in excess of 35 feet at such time as it approves the City project
pursuant to this Section.
D. In addition to any other notice provided for herein, the City shall give notice by
first class mail of public hearings to be conducted by the Planning Commission or City Council
18. 04 ( 2) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
to any person who has filed a written request therefore with the City. Such request may be
submitted at any time during the calendar year and shall apply for the balance of such calendar
year. The City shall impose by resolution a reasonable fee to be paid in advance to recover the
cost of such mailing on persons requesting such notice. Such notice shall also be mailed to
those persons or agencies required to be noticed by Section 65091( 1) and ( 2) of the
Government Code.
F. Prior to submission of a City project ( other than a park project) involving new
construction exceeding 10, 000 square feet or a building expansion exceeding 10, 000 square
feet, the Planning Commission shall review and provide comments on the project for
consideration by the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2408; Ord. No. 92- 15, Amended, 09/ 08/ 92; Ord. No. 96-23, Amended, 12/ 10/ 96;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18.04.070 Required Wording and Size of Notices
A. Public notices of hearings on zone reclassifications, permits, amendments or
variances shall consist of the words " Notices of Proposed Change of Zone Boundaries of
Classification" or " Notice of Proposed Amendment to the City Zoning Ordinance" or " Notice of
Proposed Variance" or " Notice of Proposed Special Use Permit', or similar language, as the
case may be, setting forth the location of the property under consideration, the nature of the
proposed change or permit, and the time, date and place at which the public hearing or hearings
on the matter will be held and the hearing body or hearing office.
B. Notices posted on notice or bulletin boards shall be the appropriate size for the
notice or bulletin board. Notices posted independently on the ground shall be of a size that is
readily visible from the public way or adjacent property as determined by the City Planner.
C. The cost of any posting or mailing or other noticing shall be included in the
project application fee.
Prior Code Appendix A 2409; Ord. No. 96- 23, Amended, 12/ 10/ 96)
Section 18. 04.080 Combined Proceedings
Where application is made for a change of classification or change of boundaries or for a
variance or for a special use permit, the Director of Planning or the Planning Commission shall
have the discretion to include in the notice of hearing on such application notice that the
Planning Commission will consider classification of other than that for which application is made
and/ or additional properties and/ or uses.
Prior Code Appendix A 2410)
Section 18. 04.090 Investigation of Facts
The Planning Commission shall cause to be made by its own members, or members of
its staff, such investigation of facts bearing upon an application set for hearing, including an
analysis of precedent cases as will serve to provide all necessary information to assure action
on each case consistent with the purpose of this title and with previous amendments or
variances.
Prior Code Appendix A 2411)
Section 18. 04. 100 Conduct of Hearings - Rules Established
The Planning Commission may establish its own rules for the conduct of public hearings.
The person acting as Chairman of the Planning Commission is empowered to administer oaths
18. 04 ( 3) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
to any person testifying at a hearing before the Planning Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 2412)
Section 18.04. 110 Conduct of Hearings - Administering Authority
Public hearings before the Planning Commission shall be conducted before the Planning
Commission or before any member or members thereof designated by the Commission so to
serve. The member of the Commission presiding at a hearing is empowered to administer oaths
to any person testifying at such hearing.
Prior Code Appendix A 2413)
Section 18. 04. 120 Filing of Recommendation - Action by Commission
The member of the Commission presiding at a public hearing held pursuant to Section
18. 04. 110 shall, within ten days after such hearing, file his recommendation to the Commission,
and at the following meeting of the Commission such recommendation shall be approved,
modified or disapproved in which case the action of the Planning Commission shall be final as
to action of the Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 2414)
Section 18.04. 130 Continuation of Hearing
If, for any reason, testimony on any matter set for public hearing cannot be completed on
the day set for such hearing, the commissioner presiding at such public hearing may, before the
adjournment or recess thereof, publicly announce the time and place to, and at which, such
hearing will be continued and no further notice shall be required.
Prior Code Appendix A 2415)
Section 18. 04. 140 Withdrawal of Application - Refund of Fees
A. At any time prior to final action on any application filed pursuant to this title, the
applicant by written request filed with the Planning Department or with the City Council, if action
by the Planning Department has been completed thereon, may withdraw the application and
terminate further consideration thereof.
B. Where such written request has been filed and the application withdrawn, upon
approval of a proper claim for refund of any fee paid for the filing of such application, the City
Council may order the refund of such fee less any costs the Council shall determine to have
been incurred by the City incidental to action or proposed action on the application. Application
for refund of fees shall be made in the manner and on the form prescribed for refund authorized
by the Government Code.
Prior Code Appendix A 2416)
Section 18.04. 150 Appeals
A. All appeals from the decisions of the City Planner, Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission or other City Planning approval body shall be processed according to this
section.
B. There is a two-step appeal process as follows:
1. The decision of the City Planner, Zoning Administrator or other Planning
approval body, may be appealed only to the Planning Commission.
2. All decisions of the Planning Commission are appealable to the City
Council.
18. 04 ( 4) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
3. As an exception to 1 and 2 above, all appeals where the subject is the
imposition, modification or waiver of a fee shall be heard exclusively by the City Council.
C. The requirements for filing an appeal are as follows:
1. All appeals, including appeals of the Planning Commission, must be filed
with the City Planner or his designated representative, by the close of business on the tenth
calendar day following the date of decision on the project by the approval body. If the tenth day
following the decision is not a business day for the City, the appeal may be filed the next
subsequent business day. The appeal of a decision on a tentative parcel or subdivision map
must be filed on or before the close of business on the tenth calendar day following the date of
decision.
2. All appeals shall consist of the following:
a. A letter setting forth the reason for the appeal by a person
authorized to file an appeal as determined by the regulations governing the type of project.
b. The appeal fee as set by City Council Resolution. The filing must
be complete by the deadline set in Subsection C. I or the last decision is final and effective.
3. If no appeal is filed, the effective date of any decision is the close of
business on the last day to file an appeal.
4. If the regulations for any specific type of permit or project do not
designate who is eligible to appeal the decision, the following individuals may file any appeal:
a. Any member of the City Council ( fee is waived).
b. Any member of the Planning Commission except from a decision
of the Planning Commission (fee is waived).
C. The project applicant.
d. Any person who spoke in opposition at the hearing on the project
or who indicated opposition to the project in writing prior to the hearing or at the hearing for the
project. If there is no hearing, written opposition must be received by the City prior to the date of
final approval on the project in order to be eligible to officially file an appeal.
e. The property owner or resident.
D. The dates for hearing on appeal are:
The date of the hearing on any appeal shall be as set forth herein.
1. For a Tentative Parcel Map or Tentative Subdivision Map: within 30 days
of the date the complete appeal is filed.
2. For all other appeals: within 50 days of the date the complete appeal is
filed.
E. The appellate body must make a decision on the appeal within ten days of the
date of the closing of the public hearing on the appeal.
F. Consideration of an appeal shall be at a noticed public hearing by the body
hearing the appeal. Notice of the appeal shall be given in the same manner as the original
project notice. If no notice was given for the original project, notice shall be given by
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing.
G. The decision of the Planning Commission is final unless the matter is appealed to
the City Council. The decision of the City Council is final.
Ord. No. 91- 18, Enacted, 07/ 09/ 91; Ord. No. 93-22, Amended, 9/ 28/ 93)
Section 18.04. 160 City Projects
A. The procedures set forth in this section shall be used to review and approve all
city projects.
B. For purposes of this section, a City project consists of any project or structure to
be built, constructed, erected, or installed by or on behalf of the City or the Buena Sanitation
18. 04 ( 5) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
District located on real property that is owned, leased or controlled by the City or the Buena
Sanitation District where: ( 1) the project or structure will be exclusively or primarily used by the
City or the Buena Sanitation District; or (2) the project or structure will be partly used by the City
or Buena Sanitation District, with such other usage as the City Council finds will further the
public, welfare, or fiscal interests of the City of Vista or the Buena Sanitation District. Land or
buildings shall be deemed owned, leased or controlled by the City or Buena Sanitation District,
although the land is owned, leased, or controlled by a joint facilities financing authority or similar
entity acting on behalf of the City or the Buena Sanitation District.
C. Except to the extent that state or national standards may require otherwise, all
City projects shall be constructed in accordance with the development standards set forth in the
Vista Development Code or in the case of signs on City property as defined in Section
18. 52.020, in accordance with Chapter 12.20. The City Council shall be permitted to approve a
height limit for a City project in excess of 35 feet at such time as it approves the City project
pursuant to this section.
D. The City Council shall approve any City project which consists of the construction
of any public building with a floor area exceeding 10, 000 square feet, the expansion of an
existing public building by more than 10, 000 square feet, the creation of any public park, or a
substantial improvement to an existing park. The City Manager shall determine when a park
improvement is substantial in nature. Other City projects shall, as applicable, be approved by
the Zoning Administrator, Building Official, City Engineer or other authorized City official or body
as provided in the Municipal and Development Code. This section does not alter the method for
approval of contracts involving the design, construction or any other feature of a City project,
which shall be approved solely in accordance with Vista Municipal Code, Chapter 3. 08.
E. Prior to submission of a City project to the City Council which involves a public
park, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall review and provide comments on the project
for consideration by the City Council.
F. Prior to submission of a City project ( other than a park project) involving new
construction exceeding 10, 000 square feet or a building expansion exceeding 10, 000 square
feet, the Planning Commission shall review and provide comments on the project for
consideration by the City Council.
G. This section provides the sole means for the review and approval of City projects.
To the extent that any other provision of the Municipal Code or Development Code conflicts with
this section, the provisions of this section shall take precedence. The procedures of
Government Code Section 65402 shall not be used for the review of any City project or other
City activity, except to the extent that those procedures are applicable to a charter city.
Ord. No. 2007- 17, Added, 9/ 11/ 07; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18.04. 170 Certificates of Occupancy
A. Except as provided below, no new occupancy or change in use of a structure,
improvement or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate
of occupancy approving that occupancy or use. A certificate of occupancy is not required for:
1. Existing or new detached one and two family dwellings or townhouses
as defined in the California Residential Code, and their accessory structures; or
2. A new use pursuant to Title 18 of the Vista Development Code which
commences operation without engaging in work or undertaking activities for which a permit or
similar authorization is required under the Vista Development Code, California Building Code,
or similar code.
B. For purposes of this Section, the term "new occupancy or change in use" means
any new, changed, modified, or altered occupancy or use of all or part of a building, structure
or parcel which will:
18. 04 ( 6) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Produce an occupancy or use of a formerly vacant portion of a building,
structure or parcel; or
2. Alter an existing use of all or part of a building, structure or parcel to
change the applicable zoning classifications for that building, structure or parcel based on the
land use categories contained in Title 18 of the Vista Development Code or specific plans
adopted thereunder.
C. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant whose action will or has
necessitated issuance of a certificate of occupancy to apply for and obtain such certificate
before establishing or operating a new occupancy or change in use. It shall be unlawful to
establish a new occupancy or change in use without first obtaining a certificate of occupancy,
and thereafter maintaining the certificate of occupancy in good standing during all periods that
such occupancy or use occurs.
D. The City Planner or the City Planner' s designee ( hereinafter the "permitting
official") will process applications for certificates of occupancy using an approved form upon
payment of an application fee in such amount as may be set by resolution of the City Council or
as may be otherwise allowed by law.
E. Before the permitting official issues a certificate of occupancy for a new
occupancy or change in use pursuant to this Section, the permitting official shall determine that
the new occupancy or changed in use would constitute a lawful use under Title 18 of the Vista
Development Code and specific plans adopted thereunder. If the permitting official determines
that a new occupancy or change in use would violate Title 18 of the Vista Development Code or
specific plans adopted thereunder, the permitting official will deny issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for that new occupancy or change in use. When issued, the certificate of occupancy
shall, at minimum, include the following information:
1. The address of the location covered by certificate of occupancy;
2. The name and address of the permit holder;
3. A description of that areas covered by the certificate;
4. The signature of the permitting official;
5. The nature of the occupancy or use approved; and
6. Any limitations or conditions that apply to the approved occupancy or use.
F. If the permitting official finds that a location subject to an application for a
certificate of occupancy can be occupied safely, and that no substantial hazard will result from
such occupancy before all work is completed, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued. A certificate of occupancy is required upon completion of the remainder of the work.
The permitting official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate of
occupancy is valid.
G. To streamline the application and issuance of certificates of occupancy pursuant
to this Section which involve buildings or structures in whole or part, the City Planner may elect
to use a single application for the certificates of occupancy required pursuant to Chapter 16. 08
of the Vista Development Code and this Section, and have a single certificate of occupancy
issued to evidence compliance with Chapter 16. 08 of the Vista Development Code and this
Section. In the event that such an election is made, the building official shall serve as the
permitting official for such applications and shall issue a single certificate of occupancy to
evidence compliance with Chapter 16. 08 and this Section.
H. The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises and shall not be removed except by the building official.
I. The permitting official may suspend or revoke a certificate of occupancy if
the certificate was issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information, or if the
permitting official determines that location, building, or structure subject to the certificate
violate of any ordinance, regulation, or provision of Title 18 of the Vista Development
Code.
18. 04 ( 7) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
J. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a
violation of any of the provisions of the Vista Development Code, the Vista Municipal Code or
any other local, state or federal law or regulation.
Ord. No. 2017- 14, Added 10/ 10/ 17)
18. 04 ( 8) Vista 11/ 10/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.06
Establishment of Zones
Sections:
18. 06.010 Purpose and Use Classifications
18. 06.020 Zones Established by Map - Amendments
18. 06.030 Division of Zoning Map
18. 06.040 Boundary Changes
18. 06.050 Boundary Determination Guidelines
18. 06.060 Land Use Symbols on Zoning Map
18. 06.070 Unclassified Property
18. 06.080 Prezoning Unincorporated Properties
18. 06.090 Classification of Annexed or Incorporated Properties
18. 06. 100 Land Use Conformity Required
18. 06. 105 Permissive Code
18. 06. 107 Unauthorized Cannabis Uses Prohibited Throughout City
18. 06. 108 Marijuana- Related Uses and Medical Marijuana Land Uses or Businesses
Prohibited in Specific Plan Areas (Repealed 12/ 11/ 18)
18. 06. 109 Public Nuisance ( Repealed 12/ 11/ 18)
18. 06. 110 Height Conformity Required
18. 06. 120 Open Space Conformity Required
18. 06. 130 Yard Conformity Required
18. 06. 140 Building Site Conformity Required
18. 06. 150 Existing Construction Exempt from Provisions - When
18. 06. 160 Second Units Prohibited When ( Deleted 3/ 27/ 12)
Section 18. 06.010 Purpose and Use Classifications
In order to classify, regulate, restrict and segregate the uses of land and buildings, to
regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings, to regulate the area of yards and other open
spaces about buildings, and to regulate the area of lots and parcels of land and the density of
population, classes of zones are established by this title and are to be known as follows:
E- 1 Estates zone
A- 1 Agricultural zone
O Open space zone
R- 1 Residence zone
R- 1- B Residence zone*
R- M Multi- residential zone
M- U Mixed use zone
O- P Office-professional zone
C- 1 Commercial zone
C- 2 Commercial zone
C- 3 Commercial zone
M- 1 Light manufacturing zone
IP Industrial park zone
SP Specific plan implementation zone
MHP Mobile home park zone
Overlay zones:
18. 06 ( l) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
O- R Open space residential overlay zone
BPO Biological preserve overlay zone
PC Planned community overlay zone
PRD Planned residential development overlay zone
FP Floodplain overlay zone
Prior Code Appendix A 301; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 12)
Editor' s Note: Regulations for the R- 1- A zone were repealed by Section 8 of Ord. 81- 48, which provided
that land zoned R- 1- A would be zoned R- 1- B and land zoned R- 1- B would be zoned R- 1- B ( 7. 5).
Section 18. 06.020 Zones Established by Map - Amendments
The locations and boundaries of the various zones are such as are shown on Zoning Map
No. 5 of the City, which map is attached to the ordinance codified in this title and made a part of
this title. Any amendments to Zoning Map No. 4, which might become effective after the effective
date of the ordinance adopting this section, shall be constituted as being an amendment to Zoning
Map No. 5.
Prior Code Appendix A 302; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 12)
Section 18. 06.030 Division of Zoning Map
The zoning map may, for convenience, be divided into parts and each such part may, for
purposes of more readily identifying areas within such zoning map, be subdivided into units, and
such parts and units may be separately employed for purposes of amending the zoning map or
for any official reference to the zoning map.
Prior Code Appendix A 303)
Section 18. 06.040 Boundary Changes
Changes in the boundaries of the zones shall be made by ordinance adopting an amended
zoning map, or part of such map, or unit of a part of such zoning map, which said amended maps,
or parts or units of parts, when so adopted, shall be published in the manner prescribed by law
and become a part of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 304)
Section 18. 06.050 Boundary Determination Guidelines
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zone shown upon the zoning map
or any part or unit thereof, the following rules of construction shall apply:
A. Where such boundaries are indicated as approximately following street and alley
lines or lot lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
B. In the case of unsubdivided property, and where a zone boundary divides a lot, the
location of such boundaries, unless the same are indicated by dimensions, shall be determined
by the use of the scale appearing on the zoning map.
C. Where a public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the area
comprising such vacated street or alley shall acquire the classification of the property to which it
reverts.
D. Areas of dedicated streets or alleys and railroad rights-of-way, other than such as
are designated on the zoning map as being classified in one of the zones provided in this title,
shall be deemed to be unclassified and such unclassified streets shall be used only for purposes
lawfully allowed and such unclassified railroad rights- of-way shall be used solely for the purpose
of accommodating tracks, signals, other operative facilities, and the movement of rolling stock.
Prior Code Appendix A 305)
18. 06 ( 2) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 06.060 Land Use Symbols on Zoning Map
Where areas are shown upon the zoning map enclosed within a heavy dashed line, the
area thus shown is intended to approximate the future location for that type of land use indicated
by the symbol therein enclosed within a circle. Uncircumscribed symbols within such designated
areas represent present classification.
Prior Code Appendix A 306)
Section 18. 06.070 Unclassified Property
Any property which, for any reason, is not designated on the zoning map as being
classified in any of the zones established hereby, shall be deemed to be classified R- 1.
Prior Code Appendix A 307)
Section 18. 06.080 Prezoning Unincorporated Properties
A. The City Council recognizes the fact that a City' s social and economic life is seldom
limited to the area within its corporate limits; that real need exists to consider zoning and physical
planning on the basis of the existing and developing area rather than only the areas currently
within the City limits; that state law, through the medium of the Conservation and Planning Act
see Government Code, Section 65859), recognizes the existence of the relationship between a
City and the areas adjacent thereto, and has incorporated in such state law a mandate that cities
shall preplan areas contiguous thereto if, in the opinion of the City, such areas bear a relationship
to its planning.
B. In recognition of such policy and purpose and the possibility of annexation of
adjoining lands, the City undertakes to establish an expansion of a consistent land use pattern
that shall prevail, if and when areas contained within such expanded plans annex to the City.
C. For that purpose, precise prezoning maps may be developed and adopted in the
same manner prescribed by this title for the classification of property within the City, including
procedures for and concurrent consideration of conditional use permits and specific plans.
Prior Code Appendix A 308)
Section 18. 06.090 Classification of Annexed or Incorporated Properties
A. If a precise prezoning map has been adopted for the subject area, then such
annexed or incorporated properties contained therein shall be classified as indicated thereon
upon becoming a part of the City. Portions of the precise prezoning map applicable to the subject
properties shall become a part of the City' s zoning map and such properties shall thereafter be
subject to all provisions of the City' s Zoning Code at the time the annexation becomes effective.
B. If a precise prezoning map has not been adopted for an area subject to annexation
or incorporation, then such area shall acquire the zoning classification most nearly compatible
with the land use classification of the general plan, as may be determined by the compatibility
matrix of the general plan, e. g., property subject to annexation which falls within the LD ( lowdensity
residential) land use classification of the general plan may be classified as E- 1, E- 1 ( 1. 5)
or any other more restrictive zoning classification as may be determined to be compatible with
the general plan. Such zoning classification shall become effective at the time the annexation
becomes effective and shall remain in effect until such time that a precise zoning plan has been
adopted for the subject properties in accordance with the provisions hereof.
C. In those instances where a property or properties subject to annexation or
incorporation is not subject to a precise prezoning map and there is no general plan land use
classification applicable to the subject area it shall become subject to the A- 1 ( 5) zoning
18. 06 ( 3) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
classification upon the effective date of the annexation. Such zoning classification shall remain
in effect until such time that an appropriate general plan land use classification and zoning
classification has been adopted in accordance with the provisions hereof; however, the City
Council may adopt an interim zoning ordinance in accordance with the provisions of Section
65858 of the Government Code establishing an appropriate zoning classification if it determines
such is necessary to protect the public safety, health and welfare.
Prior Code Appendix A 309)
Section 18. 06. 100 Land Use Conformity Required
A. Except as provided in this title, no building or structure shall be erected and no
existing building or structure shall be moved, altered, added to or enlarged, nor shall any land,
building, structure or premises be used for any purpose or in any manner other than is permitted
in the zone in which such land, building, structure or premises is located.
B. Under no circumstances will a use or an accessory use be classified as a lawful,
permitted, special, or conditional use under this Code if its maintenance or operation would
constitute, produce, or result in a violation of State or local laws, including those relating to
cannabis.
Prior Code Appendix A 310; Ord. No. 2007- 4, Amended, 5/ 8/ 07; Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18; Ord. No.
2019- 18, Amended, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 18. 06. 105 Permissive Code
A. The Vista Development Code, in accordance with Section 18. 06. 100, has always
been and is a permissive zoning code. Under a permissive code, no use may be established or
operated within a building or on land unless the use: ( 1) qualifies as an expressly listed use
pursuant to Section 18. 02. 294; and ( 2) has first received and maintained all permits or approvals
needed to qualify as a lawful use as defined in Section 18. 02. 372.
B. Only lawful uses may be legally established, operated, or maintained on land or in
a building within the City of Vista.
C. It is unlawful, prohibited, and a violation of this code for a person to manage,
operate, or materially contribute to a use which constitutes an unlawful use.
D. A person operates or materially contributes to an unlawful use if the person: ( 1) is
an on- site manager of the unlawful use during any period that the unlawful business is open; ( 2)
is financially, contractually or otherwise legally responsible for any aspect of the operation of the
illegal use ( including but limited to payment of utilities, advertising, rent, mortgage or other
operating costs); ( 3) is hired to provide or otherwise provides security at or for the unlawful use;
4) has been previously notified to cease and desist working for or providing services for or at a
same or similar unlawful use, and/ or cited, arrested or criminally charged for working or providing
services for or at a same or similar unlawful use, and thereafter works for or provides services for
a same or similar unlawful use; or, ( 5) is a key employee or workers ( whether for compensation
or as a volunteer) at or for the unlawful use. For purposes of this paragraph, a key employee or
worker is a person who provides on- site work, efforts or services for the benefit of the unlawful
use ( whether or not hired by the unlawful use as an employee or serving as an unpaid volunteer)
during a period when there are no more than two key employees or workers present at the site of
the unlawful use ( other than security) who are performing work or services for the benefit of the
unlawful use.
E. A person operates or materially contributes to an unlawful use if the person: ( 1) is
an on- site manager of the unlawful use during any period that the unlawful business is open; ( 2)
is hired to provide or otherwise provides security at the unlawful use; or ( 3) is a key employee at
or worker for the unlawful use. For purposes of this paragraph, a key employee or worker is a
18. 06 ( 4) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
person who provides on- site work or services for the benefit of the unlawful use ( whether or not
hired by the unlawful use as an employee) during a period when there are no more than two
persons present at the site of the unlawful use ( other than security) who are performing work for
the benefit of the unlawful use.
F. Enforcement against an unlawful use, a person who maintains and operates an
unlawful use, or a person who materially contributes to an unlawful use may occur using any or
all available legal means, including without limitation, the issuance of administrative citations, civil
proceedings, nuisance proceedings, or criminal proceedings.
G. This section is declarative of existing law previously established by the Vista
Development Code and other enactments, including without limitation Section 18. 06. 100.
Ord. No. 2015- 20, Added 11/ 10/ 15, Ord. No. 2016- 7, Amended, 6/ 10/ 16)
Section 18. 06. 107 Unauthorized Cannabis Uses Prohibited Throughout the City
A. Unauthorized cannabis uses are prohibited throughout the city whether the use is
conducted as a primary or accessory use.
B. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to allow, establish, own, operate,
engage in, manage or maintain an unauthorized cannabis use anywhere in the city.
C. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to lease or rent any building, structure,
facility, premises, land or location for an unauthorized cannabis use.
D. No administrative procedure, including those found in Section 18. 58.030 among
others, was intended or is available to expand the expressly listed uses allowed in a zoning
classification to include or accommodate an unauthorized cannabis use, whether as a primary or
accessory use.
E. The prohibitions of this section apply to all specific plans in the City, including any
plans purporting to prevail over the Vista Development Code in the event of a conflict.
Ord. No. 2015- 20, Added 11/ 10/ 15; Ord. No. 2016- 1, Added 2/ 12/ 16; Ord. No. 2016- 7, Amended
6/ 10/ 16; Measure Z, Repealed, 12/ 11/ 18; Ord. No. 2019- 18, Added, 12/ 10/ 19)
Section 18. 06. 108 Marijuana- Related Uses and Medical Marijuana Land Uses or
Businesses Prohibited in Specific Plan Areas
Ord. No. 2015- 20, Added 11/ 10/ 15; Measure Z, Repealed, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 06. 109 Public Nuisance
Ord. No. 2016- 7, Added 6/ 10/ 1; Measure Z, Repealed, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 06. 110 Height Conformity Required
Except as provided in this title, no building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed in height the limit established for the zone in which such building or
structure is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 311)
Section 18. 06. 120 Open Space Conformity Required
Except as provided in this title, no building or structure shall be erected, nor shall any
existing building or structure be moved, altered, enlarged or rebuilt so as to reduce or encroach
upon in any manner any open spaces surrounding any buildings, except in conformity with the
building site requirements and the area and yard regulations established for the zone in which
such building or structure is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 312)
18. 06 ( 5) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 06. 130 Yard Conformity Required
Except as provided in this title, no yard or other open space provided about any building
or structure for the purpose of complying with these regulations shall be considered as providing
a yard or open space for any other building or structure.
Prior Code Appendix A 313)
Section 18. 06. 140 Building Site Conformity Required
Except as provided in this title, no building or structure shall be erected, moved, altered,
enlarged or rebuilt unless such building or structure is erected or located upon a lot or building
site that conforms with the regulations of the zone in which the lot or building site is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 314)
Section 18. 06. 150 Existing Construction Exempt from Provisions - When
A. Nothing contained in this title shall require any change in the plans, construction
or designated use of a building or structure for which a building permit has heretofore been issued
and upon which actual construction has begun at the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this title or any amendment thereof; provided, that such construction and proposed use of such
building or structure is not on said date in violation of any other ordinance or law and; provided
further, that such building or structure is completed within one year of such date.
B. " Actual construction" means and is defined to be the actual placing of
construction materials in their permanent position fastened in a permanent manner, except that
where a basement is being excavated, such excavating shall be deemed to be actual
construction, or where demolishing or removal of an existing structure has been begun
preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction.
Prior Code Appendix A 315)
Section 18. 06. 160 Second Units Prohibited - When
Prior Code Appendix A 316; Ord. No. 2012- 5, Deleted, 3/ 27/ 12)
18. 06 ( 6) Vista 1/ 10/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 08
E -1 Estates Zone
Sections:
18. 08.010 Permitted Uses
18. 08.020 Building Height
18. 08.030 Front Yards
18. 08.040 Side Yards
18. 08.050 Rear Yards
18. 08.060 Building Site Area
18. 08.070 Utilities
Section 18. 08.010 Permitted Uses
In an E -1 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. A one - family dwelling on each lot or building site.
B. Accessory building and uses as defined by Sections 18. 02. 045, 18. 02.050 and
18. 02. 055, including, but not limited to the following buildings or structures; private garages, radio
and television receiving antennas, windmills, silos, tank houses, work - shops, barns, coops, and
others accessory or incidental to the primary uses permitted by this section.
C. Guesthouses provided the required setbacks for a single story structure shall
comply with Section 18. 58.270; two -story structures of which the guest house is a part shall
comply with the setbacks of the main building.
D. Home occupations
E. Agricultural crops
F. Greenhouses, fruit trees, nut trees, vines and nurseries for producing trees, vines
and other horticultural stock.
G. Flower and vegetable growing
H. The following poultry and animals may be kept in the E -1 zone subject to the
conditions listed below and Section 18. 58.470:
1. Poultry, rabbits and small domesticated animals, provided not more than
25 of any one, or combination thereof, may be kept on any lot or parcel of land.
2. One horse as a private stable for each one -half acre, or portion thereof,
contained in a lot or parcel of land.
2. 5. Two llamas for each one -half acre, or portion thereof, contained in a lot or
parcel of land.
a. A 400 square -foot area with one -third portion covered shall be
provided per llama.
3. One bovine animal on any one lot or parcel of land
4. Any two of the following on one acre of land plus one animal per one -half
acre portion thereof, over one acre:
a. Sheep or female goats in a 200 square -foot pen
b. Pigs in a 100 square -foot pen with a ten -foot by ten -foot concrete
slab subject to the granting of a minor use permit pursuant to Section 18. 66.050.
C. Notwithstanding the limitations on keeping of pigs generally as
contained in the preceding Subsection b, and in addition to the use permitted therein, one potbellied
pig may be kept or maintained for each parcel or lot, provided that the parcel or lot contains
at least 6, 000 square feet of land, and subject to the licensing requirements contained in Section
6. 06.055, Chapter 6. 06, Title 6 of the Vista Municipal Code.
18. 08( l) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Four adult dogs and four adult cats for each parcel of land plus offspring
under four months of age.
6. All poultry and animals shall be kept and maintained in such a manner as
to prevent offensive odors, flies, dust, noise and other nuisances.
7. Failure to maintain poultry and animals in such manner shall constitute a
public nuisance and a misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 18. 82.
I. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the owner
or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site.
J. The following uses, provided a special use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Public stables
2. Borrow pits and quarries for rock, sand, gravel, decomposed granite or soil
3. Cemeteries upon the issuance of a permit pursuant to City ordinance
4. Museums and libraries not operated for profit
5. Residential care homes where more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site,
subject to the provisions of Section 18. 58. 100.
6. Churches
7. Shooting ranges, including pistol, rifle, trap and skeet ranges
K. One stand for the display and sale of only those agricultural products raised on the
premises, provided such stand does not exceed 100 square feet in area and is not located nearer
than 20 feet to any street, and provided further, that such stand may not be located on any
separate parcel less than one -half acre in area.
L. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this title:
1. Raising of chinchillas
2. Clubs and lodges
3. Aviaries
4. Parks
5. Public buildings and uses
6. Radio and television transmitters
7. Recreational facilities
8. Schools
M. Transitional housing for battered /abused women and children. Limited to six or
fewer adults with unlimited dependent children. The use must be operated or authorized by a
government agency.
N. Farm employee housing, provided no such housing is located closer than 50 feet
to any side or rear boundary of the lot or parcel of land on which it is located.
O. Employee housing
P. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to residential
uses in the same zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 501; Ord. No. 91 -37, Amended, 11/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92 -4, Amended, 04/ 28/92; Ord.
No. 93 -3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 93 -26, Amended, 11/ 23/93; Ord. No. 97 -16, Amended, 08/ 26/ 97;
Ord. 2015 -19, Amended 9/ 22/ 15)
Section 18. 08.020 Building Height
In an E -1 zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is the lesser.
Prior Code Appendix A 502)
18. 08( 2) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 08.030 Front Yards
In an E -1 zone, no building or structure shall be erected or maintained less than 50 feet
from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 503)
Section 18. 08.040 Side Yards
Every lot and building site in an E -1 zone shall have a side yard on each side of the lot or
building site, and each side yard shall be not less than ten feet in width.
Prior Code Appendix A 504)
Section 18. 08.050 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in an E -1 zone shall have a rear yard not less than 20 feet in
depth.
Prior Code Appendix A 505)
Section 18. 08.060 Building Site Area
Every lot and building site in the E -1 zone shall have a minimum area of one -half acre or
any incremental increase thereto in half -acre increments as specified by the numeral, following
the zoning designation E -1, i. e., E- 1( 1. 5), etc. The designation E -1 without any additional numerals
designates the minimum half -acre lot size. There shall be no maximum permitted lot size.
Prior Code Appendix A 506)
Section 18. 08.070 Utilities
In the E -1 zone:
A. Unless stricter provisions are required by other provisions of this title, all electrical
and communication conduit and outdoor conductor service facilities shall be installed
underground within the boundaries of any lot or building site for which a building permit for a
single - family dwelling is requested.
B. No additional poles for such facilities may be installed to provide service for any
such lot or building site, except for required replacement of poles which were installed before such
date.
C. The owner of each such lot or building site shall make the necessary arrangements
with each serving utility for the underground installation required hereby.
D. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground utilities and the adjacent street
lighting system may be placed above ground.
Prior Code Appendix A 507)
18. 08( 3) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 10
A- 1 Agricultural Zone
Sections:
18. 10. 010 Permitted Uses
18. 10. 020 Building Height
18. 10. 030 Front Yards
18. 10. 040 Side Yards
18. 10. 050 Rear Yards
18. 10. 060 Building Site Area
18. 10. 070 Utilities
Section 18. 10. 010 Permitted Uses
In an A- 1 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. A one- family dwelling on each lot or building site.
B. Accessory buildings and uses as defined by Sections 18. 02.045, 18. 02. 050 and
18. 02.055, including, but not limited to the following buildings or structures: private garages, radio
and television receiving antennas, windmills, silos, tank houses, work-shops, barns, offices, coops
and other accessory or incidental to the primary uses permitted by this section.
C. Guesthouses provided the required setbacks for a single story structure shall
comply with Section 18. 58.270; two-story structures of which the guest house is a part shall
comply with the setbacks of the main building.
D. Home occupations
E. Agricultural crops
F. Fruit trees, nut trees, vines and nurseries for producing in- ground trees, vines and
other horticultural stock.
G. Greenhouses
H. Flower and vegetable gardening
I. The following poultry and animals may be kept in the A- 1 zone, subject to the
conditions listed below and in Section 18. 58.470:
1. Poultry, rabbits and other small domesticated animals, provided not more
than 25 of any one or combination thereof may be kept on any lot or parcel of land.
2. Two horses as a private stable for first acre of land plus one additional
horse per one- half acre or portion thereof for parcels over one acre.
2.5. Four llamas for the first one acre of land plus two additional llamas per onehalf
acre or portion thereof for parcels over one acre.
a. A 400 square-foot area with one- third portion covered shall be
provided per llama.
3. One bovine on any one lot or parcel of land
4. Any two of the following on any one parcel of land subject to the conditions
listed:
a. Sheep or female goats in a 200 square-foot pen
b. Pigs in a 100 square-foot pen with a ten- foot by ten- foot concrete
slab subject to the granting of a minor use permit pursuant to Section 18. 66. 050.
C. Notwithstanding the limitations on keeping of pigs generally as
contained in the preceding Subsection b, and in addition to the use permitted therein, one potbellied
pig may be kept or maintained for each parcel or lot, provided that the parcel or lot contains
at least 6,000 square feet of land and subject to the licensing requirements contained in Section
6. 06.055, Chapter 6.06, Title 6 of the Vista Municipal Code.
5. Four adult dogs and four adult cats for each parcel of land plus offspring
18. 10 (l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
under four months of age.
6. Bees
7. Two roosters on any one lot or parcel of land.
8. All poultry and animals shall be kept and maintained in such a manner as
to prevent offensive odors, flies, dust, noise and other nuisances.
9. Failure to maintain poultry and animals in such manner shall constitute a
public nuisance and a misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 18. 82.
J. Processing for market of crops raised on the premises, or on other property owned
or leased by the processor.
K. One stand for the display and sale of only those products produced on the
premises, or on other property owned or leased by the vendor, as permitted by this title; provided,
that it does not exceed an area of 200 square feet, and is located not nearer than 15 feet to any
street or highway.
L. Farm employee housing, provided no such housing is located closer than 50 feet
to any side or rear boundary of the lot or parcel of land on which it is located.
M. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the owner
or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site.
N. The following uses, provided a special use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Packing or processing plants for farm crops, provided no such plant is
situated closer than 50 feet to any site or rear boundary of the lot or parcel of land on which it is
located.
2. Farm labor camps on lots or parcels of land with a minimum area of four
acres, provided no such camp is situated closer than 50 feet to any side or rear boundary or the
lot or parcel of land on which it is located.
3. Public stables
4. Residential care homes where more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site,
subject to the provisions of Section 18. 58. 100.
5. Borrow pits and quarries for rock, sand, gravel, decomposed granite or soil
6. Cemeteries upon the issuance of a permit pursuant to City ordinance
7. Churches
8. Rescue missions and temporary revival churches
9. Shooting ranges, including pistol, rifle, trap and skeet ranges
O. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this title:
1. Raising of chinchillas
2. Clubs and lodges
3. Aviaries
4. Parks
5. Public buildings and uses
6. Radio and television transmitters
7. Recreational facilities
8. Schools
P. Transitional housing for battered/abused women and children. Limited to six or
fewer adults with unlimited dependent children. The use must be operated or authorized by a
government agency.
Q. Employee housing
R. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to residential uses
in the same zone.
18. 10 (2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code Appendix A 601; Ord. No. 91- 37, Amended, 11/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92- 4, Amended, 04/ 28/ 92; Ord.
No. 93- 3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 93- 26, Amended, 11/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 97- 16, Amended, 8/ 26/ 1997;
Ord. No. 2015- 19, Amended, 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2020- 1,
Amended, 01/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 10.020 Building Height
In an A- 1 zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is the lesser.
Prior Code Appendix A 602)
Section 18. 10. 030 Front Yards
In an A- 1 zone, no building or structure, except a stand or fence, shall be erected or placed
less than 60 feet from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 603)
Section 18. 10.040 Side Yards
Every lot and building site in an A- 1 zone shall have a side yard on each side of the lot or
building site, and each side yard shall be not less than 15 feet in width.
Prior Code Appendix A 604)
Section 18. 10.050 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in an A- 1 zone shall have a rear yard not less than 25 feet in
depth.
Prior Code Appendix A 605)
Section 18. 10.060 Building Site Area
Every lot and building site in the A- 1 zone shall have a minimum area of one acre or any
incremental increase thereto in one- half-acre increments as specified by the numeral following the
designation A- 1, i. e., A- 1( 1. 5), A- 1( 2), A- 1( 2. 5), A- 1( 3), A- 1( 3.5), etc. The designation A- 1 without
any additional numeral designates the minimum one-acre lot size. There shall be no maximum
permitted lot size.
Prior Code Appendix A 606)
Section 18. 10. 070 Utilities
In the A- 1 zone:
A. Unless stricter provisions are required by other provisions of this title, all electrical
and communication conduit and outdoor conductor service facilities shall be installed
underground within the boundaries of any lot or building site for which a building permit for a
single-family dwelling is requested.
B. No additional poles for such facilities may be installed to provide service for any
such lot or building site, except for required replacement of poles which were installed before such
date.
C. The owner of each such lot or building site shall make the necessary arrangements
with each serving utility for the underground installation required hereby.
D. Transformers, terminal boxes meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground utilities and the adjacent street
18. 10 (3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
lighting system may be placed above ground.
Prior Code Appendix A 607)
18. 10 (4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 12
Open Space Zoning Districts
Sections:
18. 12. 010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 12. 020 Open Space Zone - Designation and Adoption
18. 12. 030 Open Space Zone - Permitted Uses
18. 12. 040 Open Space Zone - Lot Area
18. 12. 050 Open Space Zone - Building Height
18. 12. 060 Open Space Zone - Setbacks
18. 12. 070 Open Space Zone - Residential Structures Permitted When
18. 12. 080 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Designation and Adoption
18. 12. 090 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Permitted Uses
18. 12. 100 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Lot Area
18. 12. 110 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Building Height
18. 12. 120 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Setbacks
18. 12. 130 Variances from Provisions
18. 12. 140 Changing Natural Features
18. 12. 150 Building Site Conformity Required
18. 12. 160 Permit Application Procedure
18. 12. 170 Landscaping
18. 12. 180 Zone Changes
18. 12. 190 Environmental Impact Report
18. 12. 200 Conflict of Provisions
18. 12. 210 Utilities
Section 18. 12.010 Purpose of Provisions
It is the intent of this chapter to preserve, in its natural state, land in the vicinity of the
unchannelized portions of Buena Vista Creek, Agua Hedionda Creek and their major tributaries,
as determined by the City Planner, other bodies of water, undeveloped floodplains, areas of
seismic activity, areas of unstable soil, areas of unique geologic formation, areas of geologic
hazard, areas of agricultural use, historic sites, and other areas of interest in order to protect the
health, safety and aesthetic sense of the public and to preserve these areas undisturbed for
future generations.
Prior Code Appendix A 650; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 12.020 Open Space Zone - Designation and Adoption
Areas zoned for open space shall be designated by the letter " O" on the zoning map.
The open space zone shall be adopted according to the provisions of Chapter 18. 80 of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 651)
Section 18. 12.030 Open Space Zone - Permitted Uses
In the O zone, only the following uses are permitted as are hereinafter specifically
provided and allowed:
A. Public buildings and uses
B. Parks
18. 12 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Community gardens
D. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with
provisions of this title:
1. Museums and associated facilities, only within Guajome Regional Park.
2. Botanical gardens and associated facilities, only within Brengle Terrace
Park.
Prior Code Appendix A 652; Ord. No. 92- 4, Amended, 04/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 12.040 Open Space Zone - Lot Area
There is no minimum lot area for the O zone, except as specified by Section 18. 12. 020
G).
Prior Code Appendix A 653)
Section 18. 12.050 Open Space Zone - Building Height
In the O zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories in height or 35 feet,
whichever is the less. This limitation shall not apply to City projects approved pursuant to
Section 18. 04. 160 where the portion of the project exceeding 35 feet is incorporated into
existing theatrical facilities located at Brengle Terrace Park.
Prior Code Appendix A 654; Ord. No. 2007- 17, Amended, 9/ 11/ 07)
Section 18. 12.060 Open Space Zone - Setbacks
In the O zone, no building or structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to a public or
private right- of-way, lot boundary or zone line.
Prior Code Appendix A 655)
Section 18. 12.070 Open Space Zone - Residential Structures Permitted When
Where it is determined by the Planning Commission and City Council that there is no
danger to public health or safety and where it will not circumvent the intent of the open space
zone or the intent of the open space element of the general plan, residential structures may be
permitted through the use of an open space residential overlay zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 656)
Section 18. 12. 080 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Designation and Adoption
The open space residential overlay zone shall be designated " O- R" on the zoning map. It
shall be used only in conjunction with the open space zone and shall be adopted separately
from any action occurring to zone property as an open space zone and shall be adopted in
accordance with provisions of Chapter 18. 80.
Prior Code Appendix A 657)
Section 18. 12.090 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Permitted Uses
In the O- R zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Agriculture
B. One single- family dwelling on each lot or building site with private garage
C. Swimming pools
D. Radio and television antennas
18. 12 ( 2) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Guesthouses
F. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site.
G. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Aviaries
2. Parks
3. Schools
H. No other uses are permitted, including those normally permitted by special use
permit; however, only those uses listed in this subsection may be permitted by special use
permit:
1. Churches
I. Transitional housing for battered/ abused women and children. Limited to six or
fewer adults with unlimited dependent children. The use must be operated or authorized by a
government agency.
Prior Code Appendix A 658; Ord. No. 93- 3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 12.100 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Lot Area
The minimum lot area in the O- R zone shall be two and one- half acres or any larger
increments in one- half acre increments as specified by the numeral following the zoning
designation O- R, i. e., O- R( 3), O- R( 3. 5), etc. The designation O- R without any additional
numeral designates the minimum two and five- tenths acre lot size. There shall be no maximum
permitted lot size. Where a stable and/ or other farm buildings are constructed, the minimum lot
area shall be in accordance with Section 18. 12. 020 ( G), unless a larger minimum is set
pursuant to this section.
Prior Code Appendix A 659)
Section 18. 12.110 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Building Height
In the O- R zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories in height or 35 feet,
whichever is the lesser height.
Prior Code Appendix A 660)
Section 18. 12.120 Open Space Residential Overlay Zone - Setbacks
In the O- R zone, no building or structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to a public
or private right- of-way, lot boundary or zone line. Swimming pools and guesthouses shall
maintain setbacks from other buildings as required by Section 18. 58. 270.
Prior Code Appendix A 661)
Section 18. 12.130 Variances from Provisions
A. Variances from the provisions of this chapter may not be granted which would in
any way circumvent the intent of this chapter as defined by Section 18. 12. 010 or the intent of
the open space element of the general plan.
B. All variances shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 18. 74 of this title
and Section 65911 of the California Government Code; and, in addition, the Planning
Commission, by resolution, shall fully and completely explain the reasons for such decision,
outlining the criteria reviewed and information evaluated which would be sufficient cause for the
granting of such variance. This resolution shall also address itself to the pertinent provisions of
18. 12 ( 3) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
this title and the open space element of the general plan and shall fully explain how the granting
of the variance will not violate the intent of such documents.
C. Exception. In the case of building setbacks and lot area reduction, the following
criteria shall be used in addition to that indicated in Subsections A and B of this section:
1. No variance for a setback reduction shall be granted that would allow any
structure or building to be constructed closer than 35 feet to any public or private right-of-way,
lot boundary or zone line.
2. No variance reducing lot size shall be granted that would allow more than
three percent reduction of the minimum required lot area.
Prior Code Appendix A 662)
Section 18. 12.140 Changing Natural Features
A. No grading, cutting or filling shall be permitted in the O or O- R overlay zone that
moves more than 30 cubic yards of earth in each acre, or that would create a cut or fill of over
three feet in height or depth, or that would significantly alter the natural terrain so as to
circumvent the intent of this chapter. The determination of significance shall be made by the
Director of Planning.
B. No natural body of water or creek or streambed shall be in any way modified,
channelized or diverted in the O or O- R overlay zone, except in time of declared state or
national emergency, or in accordance with plans and specifications for public improvements
approved by the City Council where they will not circumvent the intent of the open space zone
or the resource conservation and sustainability element of the general plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 663; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 23/ 12)
Section 18. 12.150 Building Site Conformity Required
No residential building of any size, or any nonresidential structure or structures totaling
more than 1, 500 square feet in area shall be permitted on any lot or building site in the O or O- R
overlay zone if such lot contains less area than the minimum prescribed area for that use, even
though such lot or building site existed prior to designation as an O or O- R overlay zone or was
made substandard through dedication of public right- of-way.
Prior Code Appendix A 664)
Section 18. 12.160 Permit Application Procedure
Prior to the granting of any permit for the construction of any building or structure or prior
to the granting of any grading permit, an application for such permit shall be reviewed and
approved as provided in Chapter 18. 64.
Prior Code Appendix A 665)
Section 18. 12. 170 Landscaping
All buildings in the O and O- R overlay zones shall be screened from public or private
rights- of-way and surrounding zones by landscaping with the location, size and species of such
landscaping to be approved by the Director of Planning as part of the application procedures as
provided by Section 18. 12. 160. All landscaping must be served by a permanent watering
system.
Prior Code Appendix A 666)
18. 12 ( 4) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 12.180 Zone Changes
Any zone changes from the O or O- R overlay zone shall not be considered until five
years from the date of the original change to the O or O- R overlay zone, except by unanimous
resolution of the City Council that the area considered no longer meets the intent of this chapter
and that there is sufficient open space in the city without including the area being considered to
satisfy the action plan of the open space element of the general plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 667)
Section 18. 12.190 Environmental Impact Report
Any zone change from O or O- R overlay zone to any other zone shall be accompanied
by an Environmental Impact Report.
Prior Code Appendix A 668)
Section 18. 12. 200 Conflict of Provisions
In the event of conflicting provisions between this chapter and any other resolutions,
ordinances or codes of the City, this chapter shall take precedence.
Prior Code Appendix A 669)
Section 18. 12.210 Utilities
In the O or O- R overlay zone:
A. Unless stricter provisions are required by other provisions of this title, all
electrical and communication conduit and outdoor conductor service facilities shall be installed
underground within the boundaries of any lot or building site for which a building permit for a
single- family dwelling is requested.
B. No additional poles for such facilities may be installed to provide service for any
such lot or building site, except for required replacement of poles which were installed before
such date.
C. The owner of each such lot or building site shall make the necessary
arrangements with each serving utility for the underground installation required hereby.
D. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground utilities and the adjacent street
lighting system may be placed above ground.
Prior Code Appendix A 670)
18. 12 ( 5) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 14
SP Scenic Preservation District Overlay Zone
Repealed by Ordinance 2012- 3, 2/ 28/ 12.
18. 14 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 15
BPO Biological Preserve Overlay Zone
Sections:
18. 15. 010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 15. 020 Zoning Map Symbol - Boundaries Established
18. 15. 030 Application of Chapter Provisions
18. 15. 040 Permitted Uses
18. 15. 050 Application and Hearing Procedures
18. 15. 055 Prohibited Uses and Acts
18. 15. 060 Conflict of Provisions
Section 18. 15. 010 Purpose of Provisions
It is the intent of the biological preserve overlay zone, hereinafter referred to by the
BPO" designation, to accomplish the following objectives:
A. Protect valuable natural resources that remain within undisturbed portions of the
city in accordance with the provisions of the Multiple Species Conservation Plan;
B. Ensure that any development that occurs within the areas covered by the BPO
minimizes disturbance to sensitive natural habitats and is fully mitigated within the city, as
feasible; and
C. Enhance or improve natural resources within the BPO by focusing mitigation
opportunities within these areas, where feasible, and promoting projects that will enhance or
improve degraded habitats, functions, or values.
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 15.020 Zoning Map Symbol - Boundaries Established
Land included in the biological preserve overlay shall be designated on the official
zoning map of the city with the symbol "( BPO)" following the basic underlying zoning
designation.
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 15. 030 Application of Chapter Provisions
In any zoning district where the zone classification symbol is followed by the ( BPO)
symbol, such as O ( BPO), the additional requirements, limitations and standards contained in
this chapter shall apply. The (BPO) overlay symbol may be combined with any zoning district.
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 15. 040 Permitted Uses
The following uses are permitted in the biological preserve overlay zone:
A. Biological mitigation or sensitive habitat creation and/ or habitat enhancement
projects and associated infrastructure.
B. Public trails
C. Public buildings and uses, only those critically needed to protect public health,
safety and welfare, as determined by the City Council.
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
18. 15 ( l) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 15. 050 Approval of Projects within the BPO Zone
A. Development of any project in the biological preserve overlay zone that does not
involve the construction of permanent structures shall require review and approval by the
Planning Commission. Any such project on city owned land shall require review and approval in
accordance with Section 18. 04. 160. In consideration of such project, the decision making body
shall find that the project is consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan.
B. Development of any new or expanded structure or building requiring a building
permit in the biological preserve overlay zone shall require review and approval of the City
Council at a public hearing held in accordance with Chapter 18. 04. Approval of any structure or
building project by the City Council must include the following findings:
1. Such structure or building is consistent with the goals and policies of the
general plan and does not substantially degrade sensitive natural environmental resources.
2. Such structure or building as necessary to protect or enhance public
health, safety and welfare.
3. There is no feasible alternative to locating such structure or building
within the biological preserve overlay zone.
C. Development of any structure or building requiring a building permit proposed to
replace an existing structure or building in kind and on the same footprint within the biological
preserve overlay zone shall require review and approval by the Zoning Administrator. Any such
structure proposed to expand beyond the current footprint or occupy a new site within the
biological preserve overlay zone shall require review and approval in accordance with
subsection " B."
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 15. 055 Prohibited Uses and Acts
A. With the exception of areas within Buena Vista Park, it shall be unlawful for any
person to be present on land within the biological overlay zone between the period beginning
one hour prior to sunset and ending one hour after sunrise unless the person is:
1. A City employee or an officially recognized City agent who is performing
authorized services for the City;
2. A member of a law enforcement or emergency agency engaged in
actions within the course and scope of their work;
3. A researcher engaged in biological or habitat study which has been
approved in writing by the City; or
4. An employee or agent of a utility or governmental agency with an
easement that applies to the biological overlay zone who is performing actions authorized by
that easement.
B. Except for authorized actions taken by persons pursuant to clauses 1 through 4
above, it shall be unlawful for any person within the biological preserve overlay zone to:
1. Assemble, build, construct, erect, occupy or use any structure, product, or
item designed to be placed on, suspended from, or attached to any ground, rocks, vegetation,
fences, poles, or fixtures.
2. Assemble, build, construct, erect, occupy, or use any type of bed,
habitation, or shelter.
3. Cut, trample, crush, or sever any live or dead vegetation or grade or shift
any rocks or land for any purpose, including creating a resting place.
4. Raise, capture, or remove any biological material, vegetation, or animal.
18. 15 ( 2) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Urinate or defecate in any location except within a City-provided
bathroom with operating plumbing.
6. Use matches, use a lighter, use a generator, ignite a flame, smoke a
combustible product, start or maintain a fire, or cook or heat food.
7. Leave any type of personal property or trash unattended which the
person owns, possesses, or controls, unless deposited in a City- provided trash receptacle.
8. Use or occupy any building or improvement of any nature, unless
approved or authorized by the Vista Planning Commission or City Council pursuant to Section
18. 15. 040.0 or Section 18. 15. 050, and only if used or occupied in the intended manner during
City-approved operating hours.
C. The prohibitions in this Section do not apply to an owner of private land subject to
a biological preserve overlay zone, but any such owner must satisfy all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations and covenant agreements that otherwise apply to the conduct of
the owner or the owner's use of the land subject to the biological preserve overlay zone.
Ord. No. 2019- 2, Added 1/ 22/ 19)
Section 18. 15. 060 Conflict of Provisions
In the event of conflicting provisions between these zoning standards and any standards
required by the zoning district where development will occur, the zoning standards prescribed
by this chapter shall take precedence.
Ord. No. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
18. 15 ( 3) Vista 2/ 22/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 16
Q Qualified Development Overlay Zone
Repealed by Ordinance 2012- 3, 2/ 28/ 12.
18. 16 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 18
MHP Mobile Home Park Zone
Sections:
18. 18. 010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 18. 020 Zone Established
18. 18. 030 Application of Zone
18. 18. 040 Designation of Zone
18. 18.050 Application Conditions
18. 18.060 Zone Removal Procedure
18. 18. 070 Permitted Uses
18. 18. 080 Application Procedure
18. 18. 090 Development Standards
Section 18. 18.010 Purpose of Provisions
The purpose of the MHP zone is to provide appropriate locations where mobile home
rental parks of all sizes may be established, maintained and protected. The regulations of this
zone are designed to promote and encourage an orderly residential environment with
appropriate physical amenities such as open areas, landscaping and parking, and protection of
tenants from unmitigated displacement due to change of use.
Prior Code Appendix A 730; Ord. 2012- 3, Amended Chapter Title 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 18.020 Zone Established
There is established within the city, a class of zone known as the " mobile home park
zone" or the "MHP zone."
Prior Code Appendix A 731)
Section 18. 18.030 Application of Zone
The MHP zone classification may apply to property on which a mobile home park is
constructed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter; however, the City
may place the mobile home park zone on a park existing prior to said effective date, subject to
proper rezoning hearings and procedures.
Prior Code Appendix A 732)
Section 18. 18.040 Designation of Zone
The classification mobile home park zone shall be designated by the letters MHP. The
MHP zone may be applied where allowed by the General Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 733)
Section 18. 18. 050 Application Conditions
A. Any application for mobile home park zone, except those initiated by the City,
may follow subsequently any application for a mobile home park site plan as set forth in this
chapter and may be processed and adopted following approval of such site development plan.
18. 18 ( l) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
B. If a mobile home park site development plan is accompanied by a rezone
application to the MHP zoning classification, the matters may be acted upon concurrently.
C. If a rezone application is not submitted with the application for a site development
plan for a mobile home park project, a special use permit application shall be required pursuant
to Sections 18. 74. 120 through 18. 74.230 through 18. 74.230 et seq. of this zoning title.
Prior Code Appendix A 734)
Section 18. 18. 060 Zone Removal Procedure
A. The removal of the mobile home park may be accomplished by the procedures
outlined in Chapter 18. 80.
B. In addition to the requirements of such chapter, the applicant for a rezone of the
MHP zone shall submit the following additional evidence:
1. That the property for which the rezone is being requested is not being
used for a mobile home park, and it would be better for the community not to have a mobile
home park on the property; or
2. For property containing a mobile home park, that a phase-out plan is
submitted and approved as a condition of the rezone. This phase-out plan shall indicate the
timing and manner in which the existing mobile home units shall be disposed of or relocated.
This provision shall also require plans to mitigate impacts on qualified lower income residents
describing the programs or other means that will be employed to assist them;
3. All requirements of Article II of Chapter 18. 70 are considered and
satisfied in conjunction with the application for removal of the MHP zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 735)
Section 18. 18. 070 Permitted Uses
The following uses are permitted in a MHP zone:
A. Mobile home parks with a maximum density as allowed by the General Plan
designation of the site.
B. A one-family or two-family mobile home on each designated mobile home lot or
space within a mobile home park. Two-family mobile homes shall be authorized only in medium
density, medium- high density, high density and very high density areas as shown on the
General Plan.
C. Accessory uses; provided, however, such uses are limited to awnings, portable,
demountable or permanent cabanas, ramadas, storage cabinets, fences or windbreakers,
carports, garages and porches.
D. Parks, playgrounds, riding and hiking trails, golf courses, lakes, stables and
riding rings; other similar recreational buildings, structures and facilities, clubhouses, laundries,
community centers and similar uses; provided, that all such uses are designed for and limited to
use by residents of the mobile home park and their guests and; provided further, that such uses
are not authorized on the individual mobile home lots within mobile home parks.
E. Public utility and public service uses and structures.
F. Condominium or stock cooperatives provided that the subdivision map is waived
by the City Council.
G. Churches subject to the granting of a special use permit, pursuant to the
provisions of this title.
H. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their families, are housed or otherwise cared for on any building site.
I. One dog and one cat per mobile home lot or space.
Prior Code Appendix A 736, Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
18. 18 ( 2) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 18.080 Application Procedure
All applications for mobile home parks shall be processed as follows:
A. All applications shall include a site development plan showing all aspects of the
mobile home park, including elevations or standards for mobile home structures, floor plans
and other data as may be required by the Director of Planning.
B. Subsequent to the completion of the environmental review process and the
finding that the application is complete, the Planning Commission shall hold a hearing on the
site development plan and shall recommend conditional approval or denial of the plan to the
City Council. If the Planning Commission recommends denial, the action is final and
conclusive unless the decision is appealed to the City Council by the applicant, a council
member or anyone who testifies at the hearing, either orally or in writing, or has submitted an
accompanying document for the site plan for a MHP rezone which is required to be approved
by the City Council. Any such appeal must be filed in the office of the Director of Planning
within 15 days of the date of the action of the Planning Commission.
C. If the Planning Commission recommends approval for a site development plan
or if the action of the Planning Commission is appealed, or the site plan accompanied a rezone,
the City Council shall hold a hearing de novo on the site development plan and shall
conditionally approve or deny the site development plan. Such action shall be final and
conclusive.
D. In conditionally approving the site development plan, the Planning Commission
and/ or the City Council shall use the development criteria in this chapter as a minimum
standard. Additional conditions may be added as deemed reasonable and necessary and, in
any case, will include the architectural, landscaping and site development plan conditions.
E. The notice required for site development plans by Chapter 18. 64 is not required
for a mobile home park site development plan if it is included in the notice of zone change and
if the site development plan application does not include a zone change. If the site
development plan application does not include a zone change, special notice of each hearing
shall be sent by mail to all property owners who otherwise would have received notice of a site
development plan under the provisions of Chapter 18.64. Such notice shall be mailed a
minimum of ten days prior to the hearing.
F. All actions of the Planning Commission or the City Council shall be by
resolution, except rezoning of property, which shall be by ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 737)
Section 18. 18.090 Development Standards
All mobile home parks shall conform to the standards of this section. Any criteria may
be modified by the Planning Commission and/ or the City Council, upon the finding that the
requirement does not meet the intent of this title; provided, however, in no case may density be
increased beyond that permitted by the General Plan or may area requirements be waived or
lessened for any park, including expansions of existing parks.
A. Area Regulations. There is a minimum area of one acre for any mobile home
park, provided, however, that any mobile home park of less than five acres must be located in
an area with a General Plan density of medium- high density, high density or very high density,
or as may be approved by specific plan.
B. Density. The total density of the park shall not exceed that allowed by the
underlying General Plan designation.
1. If the density regulations of any specific plan require less density than the
General Plan, the specific plan requirements shall apply.
18. 18 ( 3) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Perimeter.
1. Design Compatibility. Every mobile home park shall be designed and
developed in a manner compatible with and complementary to existing and potential residential
developments in the immediate vicinity of the project site.
2. Protection from Adverse Conditions. Site planning on the perimeter shall
give consideration to protection of the property from adverse surrounding influences, as well as
protection of the surrounding areas from potentially adverse influences within the development.
3. Fences and Walls. Each mobile home park shall be entirely enclosed at
its exterior boundaries by appropriate decorative screening or landscaping material.
D. Location. A mobile home shall comply to the following requirements for setbacks
and separations.
a) Within mobile home parks.
1. The minimum distance required for the separation of a mobile home from
any other mobile home shall be ten feet from side to side, eight feet from side to front or rear,
and six feet from rear to rear, or front to front, or front to rear. A mobile home shall be located a
minimum of three feet from all lot lines. Exception: A three foot setback is not required from a
lot line bordering a roadway.
2. In mobile home parks, or portions, thereof, constructed prior to
September 15, 1961, no mobile home shall be located closer than six feet from any permanent
building or another mobile home.
3. Mobile home projections, including eave overhangs, may intrude into the
required setback area to within three feet from adjacent lot lines not bordering a roadway.
Projects shall not extend beyond a lot line bordering a roadway.
b) Mobile homes outside mobile home parks shall comply to local
requirements for the setback and separations of single family dwellings.
C) When a mobile home has projections including eave overhangs, the
projections may intrude into the distance required for separation or setback provided that a
minimum of six feet separation is maintained between the edge of the projection. A minimum of
three feet shall be maintained from the mobile home projection and the adjacent lot line or
property line.
d) Outside of mobile home parks, mobile homes shall not be required to
have greater separation between mobile homes than other single family dwellings within the
local enforcement agency's jurisdiction. Note: Authority cited: Sections 18300 and 18610,
Health and Safety Code, Reference: Sections 18300, 18610 and 18613, Health and Safety
Code.
E. Off-Street Parking.
1. Each mobile home site shall have thereon a paved space suitable for
providing automobile shelter with space for at least two automobiles for each mobile home or, if
a two- family mobile home here is used, two spaces for each family.
2. Recreation and laundry areas shall have sufficient parking facilities to
accommodate one automobile for every ten mobile home sites that is more than 150 feet distant
from the facility.
F. Recreation Areas. At the option of the developer, either:
1. A common recreation area shall be provided that may contain community
clubhouses, swimming pools, shuffleboard courts or similar open recreational enterprises, the
minimum size of the recreational area shall be at least 200 square feet per mobile home site.
The Planning Commission may permit decentralization of the recreation facilities in accordance
with principles of good planning; provided, that the total recreation area meets the above- stated
minimum of 200 square feet from the required minimum size;
18. 18 ( 4) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The private recreation area may be provided on each mobile home site by
increasing the site area a minimum of 200 square feet from the lot size of Subsection F of this
section; or
3. A combination of subdivisions 1 and 2 of this subsection; provided, that
not less than 200 square feet of area is provided for each mobile home space.
G. Awning and Accessories. Awning and accessories shall be installed in
accordance with existing City ordinances.
H. Effect of PRD Permit on Standards. If a PRD permit is granted in conjunction
with a mobile home park, standards may be modified by conditions of such permit.
Prior code Appendix A 738; Ord. No. 91- 39, Amended, 11/ 26/ 91)
18. 18 ( 5) Vista 11/ 08/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.20
SP Specific Plan Implementation Zone
Sections:
18. 20. 010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 20. 020 Application of Zone
18. 20. 030 Development Standards
18. 20. 040 Permitted Uses
18.20.050 Implementation of Specific Plans by Other Zones
Section 18. 20. 010 Purpose of Provisions
The purpose of the specific plan implementation ( SP) zone is to implement various
policies within the General Plan which permit residential, industrial, commercial and open
space development through specific plans, pursuant to Government Code Section 65450.
The specific plans shall be consistent with the General Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1001; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 20. 020 Application of Zone
The SP Zone may be applied to any area designated on the General Plan land use
map. Areas zoned as specific plans shall be designated with the symbol " SP" on the zoning
map, followed by a dash and a numeric or alphabetical abbreviation to identify the applicable
specific plan. For example, Specific Plan No. 8 shall be referenced as " SP- 8" and the Vista
Business Park Specific Plan shall be referenced as " SP-VBP." Abbreviations for new or
amended specific plans shall be determined by the City Planner and shall be referenced in the
ordinance adopting or amending said plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1002; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 20. 030 Development Standards
Development standards for property zoned SP shall be established by a specific plan
which shall be prepared and adopted pursuant to Section 65450 of the Government Code. No
property zoned SP can be developed without the adoption of a specific plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1003; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 20. 040 Permitted Uses
The permitted uses within the SP zone shall be fully defined through adoption of a
specific plan. General direction for permitted uses shall be established by the existing
General Plan designations; the General Plan/ zoning " compatibility matrix" shall be used as a
guide to determine these uses through listing of zones found to be normally consistent with
the existing General Plan designations.
Prior Code Appendix A 1004; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18.20.050 Implementation of Specific Plans by Other Zones
Specific plans are not limited to areas zoned SP. Specific plans may be implemented by
use of other zoning classifications defined in this title.
Prior Code appendix A 1005; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
18. 20 ( l) Vista 3/ 29/ 12)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.22
PC Planned Community Overlay Zone
Sections:
18. 22. 010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 22.020 Permitted Uses
18.22.030 Application Procedure
18. 22.040 Open Space
18.22.050 Master Plan Requirements
18. 22.060 Specific Plan Requirements
18. 22. 070 Development Program Requirements
18. 22. 080 Required Maps and Reports
18. 22.090 Evaluation Criteria
18.22. 100 Revising Adopted Master Plan Procedure
18. 22. 110 Revising Adopted Specific Plan Procedure
18. 22. 120 Revising Adopted Development Program Procedure
18. 22. 130 Revising Maps and Reports Procedure
18.22. 140 Application Fees
Section 18. 22. 010 Purpose of Provisions
A. The purpose of this chapter is:
1. To provide a method that will promote the maximum in living benefits to
the public from balanced and diversified large- scale planned communities.
2. To aid in making provisions for:
a. Desirable relationships between the types and amounts of
proposed urban uses and the physical base of the area.
b. Adequate movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
C. Identification of cost- revenue relationships for public utilities and
facilities serving the area.
d. Community facilities and services of adequate capacity and
distribution.
3. To increase long- term security on behalf of the public and the applicant
by encouraging communication between the applicant and the planning agency from the time
the project is first conceived, and recognizing that provisions have to be made for maintaining
future flexibility with respect to the content of adopted plans and programs.
4. To provide a means of logically linking the processes of planning and
community development by:
a. Evaluating the submitted plans for conformance with adopted
programs and policies.
b. Requiring specific categories of information relating to the
proposed community that will enable the Planning Department to determine its impact on
adjacent neighborhoods and on agencies and facilities that would have to provide services to
the area.
C. Requiring that community development take place in substantial
conformance with adopted master and specific plans and development programs.
B. Land in the planned community overlay zone may be used subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix A 750)
18. 22 ( l) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 22.020 Permitted Uses
The following uses are permitted in a planned community overlay zone:
A. All uses designated on the approved master plan of the area within the overlay
zone.
B. Nonconforming uses may be continued pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
18. 58.
C. The addition of any other uses shall not be permitted unless all of the following
requirements have been met:
1. That a master plan, specific plan( s) and development program( s) be
submitted and adopted subject to the procedure and requirements of this chapter; and
2. That a specific zone, other than the overlay zone, which permits or
conditionally permits the proposed use, be adopted for the subject area and that this zone must
be in conformance with the adopted specific plan( s) and development program( s).
Prior Code Appendix A 751)
Section 18.22.030 Application Procedure
The procedures for applying the overlay zone and specific zones, and the procedures
for submitting master and specific plans, development programs and the related maps and
reports are as follows:
A. An applicant must submit an application for the planned community zone in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18. 80; provided, that the application is accompanied
by:
1. A master plan, as the term is used in Section 18. 22. 020 ( A), that meets
the requirements of Section 18. 22. 050;
2. A development program that meets the requirements of Section
18. 22.070; and
3. Maps and other reports that meet the requirements of Section 18. 22. 080.
B. In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18. 80, the Planning Commission
shall hear the application for the planned community zone; and, if recommending or denying
adoption thereof, shall forward the application with an appropriate recommendation in the form
of a resolution to the City Council.
C. The Planning Commission shall consider simultaneously with the application for
the planned community zone:
1. The master plan.
2. The corresponding development program, and the related maps and
reports.
D. The items mentioned in Subsection C of this section shall be forwarded with the
appropriate resolution to the City Council.
E. Land included in the planned community overlay zone shall be designated on the
official zoning map of the city with the symbol "( PC)" following the basic underlying zone district
designation. Before the symbol ( PC) is applied to the zone map, a public hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18. 80.
F. In any zoning district where the zone classification symbol is followed by
parenthetically enclosed letters ( PC), such as R- 1 ( PC), the additional requirements, limitations
and standards contained in this chapter shall apply. The ( PC) district symbol may be combined
with any zone districts.
G. Provided the planned community zone is adopted by the City Council, the
applicant may submit an application for specific zones in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 18. 80; provided, that the application is accompanied by:
18. 22 ( 2) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
1. A specific plan that meets the requirements of Section 18. 22. 060.
2. A development program that meets the requirements of Section 18. 22.070.
3. Reports that meet the requirements of Section 18. 22. 080.
H. The Planning Commission shall hear the application for specific zones
simultaneously with the specific plan and the development program, and if recommending or
denying adoption thereof, shall forward the specific zones, the specific plan and development
program with the appropriate resolution to the City Council.
I. Provided the specific plan and specific zones are adopted by the City Council, the
official zoning maps shall be amended as of the effective date of the adopting ordinance to
indicate that the adopted specific zones, as well as the previously adopted planned community
zone, apply to the subject property.
J. Applications for tentative tract maps and planned development permits may be
submitted with the application for specific zones in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
provided, that these applications are:
1. Conditioned upon the adoption of such specific zones by the City Council.
2. Accompanied by a statement from the applicant wherein he agrees to
procedures in this section.
Prior code Appendix A 752)
Section 18. 22.040 Open Space
In a PC zone, open space requirements are as follows:
A. Required open space shall comprise at least 40 percent of the net land area of the
planned community zone, exclusive of commercially or industrially developed land. For the
purpose of open space computation, " net land area" means the area to be developed exclusive of
rights-of-way for street and highway purposes, whether public or private.
1. Land occupied by buildings, streets, covered areas ( including patios),
parking spaces ( exclusive of parking for recreational facilities) or that land which has a slope of 40
percent or more, subject to approval of Planning Commission, may not be counted as satisfying
this open space requirement; however, land occupied by recreational facilities, buildings,
structures or appurtenances may be counted as required open space.
B. All required open space where natural grade is disturbed, shall be suitably
improved for its intended purposes and 25 percent of all open space shall be devoted to common
uses for residents and guests of the planned community.
C. The remaining open space may be improved or may be left in its natural state,
particularly if natural features worthy of preservation exist on the site. Open space left in its
natural state shall be kept free of litter and shall at no time constitute a health, safety, fire or flood
hazard. Areas devoted to natural flood- control channels and those areas encumbered by
floodway or drainage easements may be applied toward satisfying this portion of the total open
space requirement.
D. If development is to be accomplished in stages, the development plan shall
coordinate improvement of the open space, the construction of buildings, structures,
improvements and streets in such open space and the construction of dwelling units in order
that each development stage achieves a proportionate share of the total open space and
environmental quality of the total planned development.
E. Areas permanently reserved for common open space shall be reserved for the
use and enjoyment of the residents in a manner which makes the City or a public district or public
agency a part to and entitled to enforce the reservation. The City Planning Commission may
require that open space easements over the required open space be conveyed to the City. This
section in no way is intended to imply City maintenance of such open spaces.
Prior Code Appendix A 753)
18. 22 ( 3) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.22.050 Master Plan Requirements
For a PC zone, the master plan submitted shall:
A. Include the entire area that is intended to be a part of the planned community.
B. Have identified for each and every area the proposed general categories of land
uses, including densities, improved and natural open areas.
C. Have identified the circulation system, including prime arterial, collector streets
or the two classes of highest capacity roads used or proposed.
D. Have the topics in this section and the subsections thereof placed over a recent
topographic base map(s) of such a scale that approximate measurements can be made
therefrom in order that the intent of the proposal can be reasonably determined.
Prior Code Appendix A 754)
Section 18.22.060 Specific Plan Requirements
For a PC zone, the specific plan submitted shall:
A. Include the entire area that the applicant proposed to be developed as one
section within a five-year period before proceeding to develop other sections, unless provision
for multi- section development is made in the development program previously adopted with the
master plan;
B. Have identified for each and every area the proposed specific categories of:
1. Land uses.
2. All land use densities.
3. Improved and natural open spaces.
4. The circulation system, including prime arterial, collector and local streets
used or proposed.
5. Any bicycle paths, pedestrian or equestrian systems proposed that are
not included in adopted city road standards.
C. Have the topics set out in Subsection B of this section placed over a recent
topographic base map(s) of such a scale that approximate measurements can be made
therefrom in order that the intent of the proposal can be reasonably determined.
Prior Code Appendix A 755)
Section 18. 22. 070 Development Program Requirements
A development program shall list in the order of expected development, in tabular
form, those categories of items in that master plan or specific plan to be constructed by the
applicant, other private developers and public agencies.
Prior Code Appendix A 756)
Section 18. 22. 080 Required Maps and Reports
In order that the Planning Commission and City Council be advised of the:
A. Environmental impact of the proposed development on adjacent communities
and those agencies that would have to provide services to the area, the environmental impact
includes, but is not limited to, economic impact;
B. Relationship of the proposed development to adopted plans, policies and
ordinances; and
C. Alternative means of control of the design and improvement of the area, the
following is required to be submitted at the time of application for planned community zoning:
1. For master plan area:
a. Maps that have delineated areas of: slopes expressed in
18. 22 ( 4) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
categories of percent that can be used in evaluating the relationship of the proposed plan to
its site; areas subject to flooding; areas of topography that have moderate and high fire
hazards; geological conditions; and high water table.
b. Reports that describe the existing systems, community facilities
and services and include: vehicular circulation system; sewer and water system; flood control
system; community facilities, i. e., schools, parks and recreation, open space, library and
community centers; and community services, i. e., police protection, fire protection, fire
suppression, physical and mental health, welfare and probation, and a preliminary soil
investigation report which delineates soils in the PC zone as categorized by a registered
engineer as suitable or unsuitable for urban development purposes.
i. The reports for the systems, community facilities and
services mentioned in subdivision ( 1) ( b) of this subsection shall state:
A) The name of the responsible agency.
B) Present capacity of the system.
C) Present amount of demand or use of the system,
programmed additions of capacity.
D) Anticipated load resulting from the proposed
development.
ii. The following reports shall be furnished by the developer, in
conjunction with the specific plan, as set forth in Section 18. 22. 060, no less than 30 days prior
to the date on which public hearings are to be held:
A) Reports that describe the proposed systems, community
facilities and services to be constructed by the developer, as well as economic justification for
proposed commercial development,
B) The reports for the systems, community facilities and
services mentioned in subparagraph ( ii) ( A) shall state:
1) The name of the agency that will assume
responsibility.
2) Proposed capacity of the system.
3) The projected demand that is anticipated at the
completion of the entire development.
C) Reports that describe the total number of dwelling units
and the percent of proposed dwelling units that are within each residential density.
D) Reports that describe the cost-revenue relationship for
existing and proposed public utilities, i. e., sewer and water, community facilities and services
and special districts.
E) A detailed soil report compiled by a registered soil
engineer.
F) A tentative subdivision map of the property as well as a
final subdivision map which shall be subject to approval prior to beginning construction.
iii. For each of the categories of maps and reports mentioned in this
section and all subsections thereof, there shall be included a narrative statement of the relative
importance of the proposed developments and the basis upon which the overall planned
decisions have been predicated.
iv. Any of the maps or reports that are required to be submitted
under the provisions of this section, or the subsections thereof, may be waived or the required
content reduced in the event such reports would result in a duplication, repetition, redundancy
or superfluity, in view of existing adequate capacity and close proximity of urban services and
facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 757)
18. 22 ( 5) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.22.090 Evaluation Criteria
A. The content of the master plan, specific plan, development programs and the
related maps and reports shall be evaluated for:
1. Conformance with adopted General Plans, programs, policies and
ordinances, open space and Environmental Quality Act of 1970, and amendments thereto.
2. Ability of the development to promote a community for the best interests
of the residents by making provision for:
a. Relationships between the types and amounts of proposed urban
uses and the physical base of the site and adjacent areas. -
b. Adequate movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
C. Identification of cost-revenue relationships for public utilities and
facilities serving the area.
d. Community facilities and services of adequate capacity and
distribution.
e. A broad range of household economic structures.
f. Adequate open space for the use of residents and guests.
B. The content of the specific plan( s) shall also be evaluated for conformance with
the proposed or adopted master plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 758)
Section 18.22. 100 Revising Adopted Master Plan Procedure
A. The applicant may submit to the Planning Commission an application for a
revision of the adopted master plan; provided, that:
1. Application is made on forms adopted by the Planning Commission.
2. A revised master plan is submitted that meets the requirements of
Section 18. 22. 050.
3. Revisions to the development program and the related maps and reports
for the revised master plan shall be submitted or, if applicable, the applicant shall submit a
signed statement to the effect that the proposed revision in the master plan is of such a nature
that the previously adopted development program and the related maps and reports meet the
requirements of Sections 18. 22. 070 and 18. 22. 080.
B. The provisions contained in Chapter 18. 80 shall be used in processing and
hearing applications for revisions to an adopted master plan.
C. Provided it is determined by the Planning Commission that the proposed
revision to the master plan would significantly conflict with development proposals for an area
included within an adopted specific plan, that adopted specific plan shall be submitted for
revision before the proposed revised master plan is heard.
Prior Code Appendix A 759)
Section 18. 22. 110 Revising Adopted Specific Plan Procedure
A. Any application for a revision of the adopted specific plan( s) shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission as follows:
1. Application is made on forms adopted by the Planning Commission.
2. A revised specific plan is submitted that meets the requirements of
Section 18. 22. 060.
3. Revisions to the development program and the related maps and
reports for the revised specific plan area shall be submitted, or, if applicable, the applicant
shall submit a signed statement to the effect that the proposed revision in the specific plan is
18. 22 ( 6) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
of such a nature that the previously adopted development program and the related maps and
reports meet the intent of Sections 18. 22. 070 and 18. 22. 080.
4. Provided the revised specific plan would require a change of zone
classification or zone boundaries, an application for a change of zone shall be submitted
simultaneously therewith.
B. The provisions contained in Chapter 18. 80 shall be used in processing and
hearing applications for revision to an adopted specific plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 760)
Section 18. 22. 120 Revising Adopted Development Program Procedure
A. An applicant may submit to the Planning Commission an application for a
revision of the adopted development program( s) provided that:
1. Application is made on forms adopted by the Planning Commission.
2. A revised development program(s) is submitted that meets the
requirements of Section 18. 22. 070.
B. The provisions contained in Chapter 18. 80 shall be used in processing and
hearing applications for revisions to adopted development program( s).
Prior Code Appendix A 761)
Section 18. 22. 130 Revising Maps and Reports Procedure
A. An applicant may submit to the Planning Commission an application for a
revision of maps and reports; provided that:
1. Application is made on forms adopted by the Planning Commission.
2. Revised maps and reports submitted that meet the requirements of
Section 18. 22. 080.
B. The provisions contained in Chapter 18. 80 shall be used in processing and
hearing applications for revisions to maps and reports.
Prior Code Appendix A 762)
Section 18. 22. 140 Application Fees
Reasonable fees shall be established by a resolution of the City Council, and amended
from time to time as deemed necessary by such City Council, for the processing of applications
made pursuant to the provisions of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 763)
18. 22 ( 7) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 24
PRD Planned Residential Development Overlay Zone
Sections:
18. 24.010 Findings
18. 24.020 Purpose of Provisions
18. 24.030 Definitions
18. 24.040 Zone Established
18. 24.050 Application of Zone
18. 24.060 Density Establishment and Determination
18. 24.070 Permitted Uses
18. 24.080 Development Standards
18. 24.090 Common Open Areas and Recreational Facilities
18. 24. 100 Application Procedure
18. 24. 110 Hearing Procedure
18. 24. 120 Deviations from Development Standards
18. 24. 130 Modification Conditions
18. 24. 140 Validity of Permit
18. 24. 150 Extension of Time for Permit
Section 18. 24.010 Findings
It is found that:
A. There are land areas within the city which possess one or more unique
characteristics and features of a scenic, geographical, geological or topographical nature and
the basic character of same should be preserved and enhanced.
B. Large portions of the city are composed of steep hillside slopes and should be
preserved, but present difficult design problems.
C. The encouragement of more imaginative and innovative design of residential
developments for such areas than is generally feasible under conventional zoning regulations is
in the best interests of the public health, safety and general welfare.
D. The encouragement of more economical and efficient use of land while providing
a harmonious variety of housing choices, a higher level of amenities, and preservation of natural
and scenic qualities of open spaces is in the best interests of the public health, safety and
general welfare.
Prior Code Appendix A 775)
Section 18. 24.020 Purpose of Provisions
The purpose of this chapter is:
A. To encourage imaginative and innovative planning of residential developments
as a unit offering a wide variety of dwelling unit types and site arrangements well integrated with
open space and recreational areas.
B. To permit greater flexibility and design of residential neighborhoods than is
feasible under the strict application of conventional zoning and subdivision regulations.
C. To provide for methods and patterns of residential development that will promote
the public interest in the retention of the unique characteristics of the land areas within the city.
D. To enhance the quality of residential development and reduce developmental
and design problems in hillside areas in order to assist in preservation of areas of natural scenic
18. 24 ( l) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
beauty through encouragement of integrated planning, design and unified control of
development.
Prior Code Appendix A 776)
Section 18. 24.030 Definitions
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms and phrases have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary:
Planned residential development" or " PRD" means a residential development improved
in accordance with an overall project plan and is characterized by the following:
1. The density regulations are applied to the total area of the PRD rather than
separately to individual lots of building sites.
2. The right to use and enjoy any privately owned common open areas and
recreational facilities provided on the site of the PRD is coupled with ownership of the dwelling
units, and such ownership may be of lots or condominiums or both.
3. A PRD may include accessory or recreational facilities limited in size and
capacity to the needs of the occupants of the PRD and their guests.
Planned residential development permit" is a permit issuable by the City for construction
or erection of buildings and structures on and improvements of property located in the PRD
zone pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Planned residential development zone" is an overlay zone in which a PRD is a
permitted use.
Prior Code Appendix A 777)
Section 18. 24.040 Zone Established
There is established, applicable within the city, a class of zone to be known as the
planned residential development overlay zone, or the PRD zone, which such zone shall be an
overlay zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 778)
Section 18.24.050 Application of Zone
A. Land shall be classified or reclassified as being in the PRD zone pursuant to an
amendment to the zoning ordinance adopted and codified in this title pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 18. 80; provided, however, that in order to so classify or reclassify any land as being
in the PRD zone, the following findings, based on substantial evidence, must be made by the
City Council with respect to such land:
1. That the land proposed to be so classified or reclassified is no less than
two acres in size.
2. That the land proposed to be so classified or reclassified has unique and
valuable natural scenic and environmental features such as pronounced land forms, ridgelines,
barrancas, canyons or slopes which will be better preserved and enhanced by integrated
planning and design as a unit pursuant to a PRD permit than under conventional zoning
regulations.
3. That the land proposed to be so classified or reclassified has features
which are compatible with clustering or other nonstandard development.
4. That the classification or reclassification is not in conflict with any
applicable element of the General Plan or any specific plan.
B. Land included in the PRD zone shall be designated on the official zoning map of
the City with the symbol PRD-( suffix) following each respective underlying zone district
18. 24 (2) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
designation of such land. The suffix to be inserted shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section 18. 24.060.
Prior Code Appendix A 779)
Section 18. 24.060 Density Establishment and Determination
A. At the time of classifying or reclassifying land as being in the PRD zone, the
ordinance affecting same shall designate a whole number suffix to the PRD designation from 1
through 29, i. e. PRD- 2, PRD- 10, PRD- 21, and such suffix shall indicate the number of dwelling
units permitted to be constructed thereon per gross acre of such land so classified or
reclassified pursuant to this chapter. The Planning Commission may recommend and the City
Council may designate a PRD zone with a suffix equal to or less than, with the concurrence of
the applicant, the maximum number allowed by Subsection B of this section, but in no case
shall a PRD zone be recommended or designated with a suffix greater than the maximum
number allowed by subsection B of this section.
B. The maximum number of dwelling units per gross acre of the land proposed to be
so classified or reclassified shall depend on the average natural slope of the land and the
maximum density indicated therefore by the land use element of the General Plan and shall be
determined by the formula:
1- 1. 714 . 0000229 1 C)
D = A
L
D = Maximum number of dwelling units per gross acre ( rounded to the nearest whole
number).
L = The minimum land area, in acres, for each dwelling unit as shown on the land
use element of the General Plan.
I = Map contour interval, in feet.
C = Sum of length of map contour lines, in feet.
A = Land area, in acres, exclusive of all areas having natural slope of 50 percent or
greater.
C. Calculations shall be based on an accurate topographical survey using a map
contour interval of not more than ten feet and a horizontal scale of one inch equals 100 feet or
larger, and such maps and calculations shall be certified as to their accuracy by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. Such determination is illustrated by Figure 1, attached
to the ordinance codified in this title, on file and available for inspection in the office of the City
Clerk.
D. For purposes of calculating the actual number of dwelling units, pursuant to a
PRD permit, permitted on land classified or reclassified as in the PRD zone, the gross acreage
of the land shall be deemed to be the entire land area within the boundaries of the land
designated PRD, including land area required for local streets and streets and highways shown
on the circulation element of the General Plan, but excluding any public streets existing on the
land at the time of classification or reclassification.
Prior Code Appendix A 780)
Section 18. 24.070 Permitted Uses
In the PRD zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Residential housing in a group or groups of dwelling units, attached or detached,
including, but not limited to, one-family detached dwellings, one-family townhouses,
condominiums, and multiple-family dwellings, which are served by a common open area owned
18. 24 (3) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
maintained and designed for the use of residents of such group or dwelling units; provided, that
a PRD having a density suffix of three or less shall be limited to one- family detached dwellings.
B. Parks, playgrounds, riding and hiking trails, stables and riding rings, and other
similar private recreational buildings, structures and facilities, clubhouses, community centers
and similar uses; provided, that all such uses are designed for and limited to use by residents of
the PRD and their guests.
C. Housing and maintaining horses in a private stable on any lot or building site in
the PRD- 1 or PRD- 2 zone.
D. Animal raising projects if a special use permit is obtained in accordance with the
provisions of this title, provided such special use permit may be issued only for a lot or building
site in the PRD- 1 or PRD- 2 zone which is not less than one acre in size and contains not more
than one one-family dwelling;
E. The following agricultural and horticultural uses on lots greater than one- half acre
in size containing not more than one one-family dwelling, or within common open space
designated for such use in the PRD permit, excluding therefrom retail sales upon such lots or
open space:
1. Agricultural crops
2. Fruit trees, nut trees, vines and flowers and vegetable gardens
3. Greenhouses and nurseries
4. Production of trees, shrubs, vines and other horticultural stock
F. Uses, buildings and structures incidental to and customarily accessory to
permitted uses, including uses specified in subsection E of this section, to the extent normally
appropriate for landscaping, or for the pleasure and enjoyment of the residents for which the
use is intended.
Prior Code Appendix A 781)
Section 18. 24.080 Development Standards
The following criteria shall govern the design of a planned residential development:
A. Setbacks and Spacing of Buildings.
1. A setback of at least 50 feet from the street centerline shall be maintained
by all buildings and structures from any street, public or private, except as hereinafter provided,
and except walls and fences along any exterior subdivision boundary of the development;
provided, however, that when such street has a right- of-way width greater than 60 feet, a
setback of 20 feet from the right- of-way of such street shall be maintained. The setback along
any interior or rear property line shall be no less than ten feet.
2. No building, except as hereafter provided, shall be located closer than
five feet from any interior vehicular or pedestrian way, court, plaza, open parking facility or any
other surfaced area reserved for public use or for use in common by residents of the PRD. Such
setback shall be measured from the nearest edge of a surfaced area; provided, however, that
where no sidewalk exists in conjunction with a public or private street, such setback shall be
measured from the nearest edge of the street right- of-way or private road easement.
3. Garages and carports shall be set back as set forth by the terms of the
PRD permit; provided, however, that no such structure shall be located closer than ten feet from
the nearest edge of any public or private street right- of-way or easement line.
4. Spacing between detached buildings and structures shall be at least ten
feet. Groups of dwelling units such as townhouses are permitted to abut one another, provided
the horizontal dimension of any building group shall not exceed 150 continuous feet.
B. Parking Requirements.
1. There shall be provided a two-car, covered and enclosed garage for each
dwelling unit. The assigned garage space shall be located within a walking distance of 100 feet
18. 24 (4) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
from the dwelling unit served by such garage.
2. In addition to the garage required by subsection ( B) ( 1) of this section,
there shall be provided open parking spaces in the amount of five-tenths for each one- bedroom
dwelling unit, one for each two- bedroom dwelling unit, and one and five-tenths for each threebedroom
and larger dwelling unit.
3. Recreational vehicle parking shall be provided as set forth in Note E of
Section 18. 54.050.
4. The parking requirements set forth in this chapter may be modified by the
terms of the PRD permit if such modification will not result in on- street parking, traffic circulation
conflicts, or a grant or privilege not enjoyed by properties in the same zone having similar
circumstances.
C. Building Site Requirements. For purposes of complying with the provisions of
this section, each dwelling unit shown on the site development plan shall constitute a building
site or lot as defined in the zoning title.
D. Lot Area. No minimum lot area is required.
E. Lot Width and Depth. No minimum lot width and depth are required.
F. Access. Each residential lot or building site in the PRD need not abut a street,
provided the ownership of any residential lot not so abutting shall include a recorded right of
access from a street capable of providing pedestrian, emergency and service vehicle travel.
G. Repealed.
H. Open Space Requirements.
1. At least 40 percent of the gross land area of any PRD shall be maintained
as open space and land occupied by buildings, streets, driveways, parking areas, service areas
or recreational buildings shall not be included in satisfaction of this open space requirement.
2. At least one- half of the required open space shall have an overall finish
slope not to exceed ten percent. If 60 percent or more of the gross land area included in the
application for a PRD permit has an existing average natural slope greater than ten percent, the
overall finish slope requirement set forth in this subdivision may be modified by the terms of the
PRD permit to require only 25 percent of the required open space to not exceed a ten percent
slope, provided the intent and spirit of the zoning title are not violated.
3. Open space shall have such landscaping as is approved by the terms of
the PRD permit. Areas devoted to natural or improved flood control channels and those areas
encumbered by flowage, floodway or drainage easements may be applied in satisfaction of the
total open space requirement.
I. Phased Development. If development is to be accomplished in phases, the
application for the PRD permit shall so indicate by phase lines and a construction schedule.
Such schedule shall coordinate the construction of buildings, structures and improvements in
such open space with the construction of dwelling units in order that each development phase
achieves a proportionate share of the total open space and environmental quality of the total
planned development. The phase lines shall be as shown on the tentative subdivision map to be
filed with the application, and the construction schedule shall require the completion of all
requirements within each phase as shown and such other requirements beyond the phase lines
as are required by each department or agency having authority over any part of the project for
that phase. If the PRD permit expires, all phases not completed shall be deemed to be annexed
to any existing homeowners' association as open space, and such annexation shall be provided
for in the conditions, covenants and restrictions required by Section 18. 24.090.
J. Grading Requirements. A PRD shall have a minimum of grading and earth
movement. If grading is found to be necessary to improve the overall development of the site,
the following special requirements shall be applicable in addition to the other grading
requirements set forth in this code:
18. 24 (5) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Alterations of streambeds or natural watercourses should be permitted
only as a means of preserving the natural scenic quality of the surrounding vegetation and
wildlife habitat.
2. Restoration of contours, altered by grading, to create a natural
appearance by means of land sculpturing which conforms with the slope of existing topography
shall be required if necessary for preservation of unique and valuable land forms.
3. Existing major predominate ridgeline profiles shall be retained.
4. In order to control and minimize erosion and maintain visual harmony in
the area, manufactured cut or fill slopes shall be planted with plant materials native or
compatible to the general area. Plant materials shall be used which will minimize fire potential,
protect slopes from soil erosion and slippage, minimize visual effects of grading and
construction, and soften the impact of manufactured edges.
5. The top and toe of any manufactured cut or fill slope and the point at
which any excavation joins existing undisturbed soil shall be rounded.
6. Manufactured slopes shall be contoured in a manner so as to maintain
the natural undulating appearance of the existing topography.
7. The slope for any cut or fill bank resulting from grading shall not be less
than two feet horizontal for each one foot vertical, except as may be approved by the terms of
the PRD permit.
K. Utility Undergrounding Requirement. All new and existing utility distribution
facilities, including cable television lines, within the boundaries of any PRD or within any half
street abutting a PRD shall be placed underground. The owner is responsible for complying with
the requirements of this section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of
the serving utilities, including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such
facilities. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and other
facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting systems may
be placed above ground. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and
maintenance of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34, 500 volts and long distance
and trunk communication facilities. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when
no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to install cable television
lines in the PRD.
L. Paving Standards. The design and construction of all parking areas, including
access ways thereto, serving multiple- family projects ( three or more dwelling units) and all
commercial or industrial facilities, or any other facility held open for public use, shall be paved.
Such paving standards shall be based upon a Traffic Index ( T. I.) of four and five-tenths and the
applicable "R" value of the soil( s) at the project site as determined by a registered soils
engineer. Specific modification( s) of this standard may be made or approved by the Director of
Public Works where sound engineering practices may justify such modification( s). This standard
shall be applicable to all new projects and existing parking areas subject to resurfacing or repair
of the parking area surface, where the original surface has broken up or is subject to removal
and replacement, for which a building, grading or any other construction permit is issued after
the effective date of the amendment to the ordinance codified in this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 782; Ord. No. 91- 42, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18. 24.090 Common Open Areas and Recreational Facilities
A. If an applicant for a PRD permit proposes to provide common open space and
recreational facilities to be used by the occupants of two or more dwelling units, he shall so
state in his application and the application shall include a plan, acceptable to the City, for the
preservation and maintenance of the common areas of the property until such plan is terminated
with the approval of the City. Guarantee of performance of such plan shall be provided by a
18. 24 (6) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
recordable instrument setting forth covenants, conditions and restrictions which run with the
land in favor of and binding upon the owners and future owners of the property, obligating them
to ensure recreational facilities shall be maintained in an attractive and safe manner suitable to
the full enjoyment of such common open spaces and recreational areas and improvements
constructed thereon, and restricting use of same to the residents of the PRD in common.
B. The terms of all such recorded instruments shall inure to the benefit of the City
and shall make such owners and future owners jointly and severally liable to the City for the
expenses of such maintenance upon their failure to so maintain such common open space and
recreational facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 783)
Section 18. 24. 100 Application Procedure
Application for a PRD permit shall be filed with the secretary of the Planning
Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section:
A. The PRD permit application must be for land which is classified in the PRD zone, is
owned by or under the control of a person or corporation proposing such residential
development, and shall state fully the circumstances and conditions relied upon as grounds for
the application, shall be accompanied by adequate plans, a legal description of the property
involved, and explanation and description of proposed use, and a site development plan
meeting the requirements of Chapter 18. 64.
B. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $ 100 over and
above any and all other fees payable pursuant to City ordinances and resolutions.
C. The application shall be accompanied by a tentative subdivision map, which shall
be filed in accordance with the provisions of Title 17 of this code, as amended.
D. The following exhibits shall accompany an application for PRD permit:
1. Topographical maps of existing terrain drawn to a minimum five-foot
contour.
2. A grading plan which indicates existing topography and proposed earth
movement, finish grade elevations, proposed cut-and- fill slopes, necessary cross- sections, and
the extent and method of drainage control.
3. A map indicating existing and proposed utility systems and services which
includes, but is not limited to, sewage, water, gas, drainage, television reception,
communication and electrical systems capable of serving the entire PRD.
4. A fully dimensioned site plan drawn to scale clearly showing all property
lines, existing and proposed buildings, structures, streets, sidewalks, walls, fences, driveways,
parking areas and design, guest parking, recreational vehicle storage, patios, recreational area,
lighting provisions, trash facilities, and other information necessary for plan review.
5. A detailed landscaping plan showing the size, location and type of
landscaping proposed, the irrigation facilities and method of maintenance thereof.
6. A plan showing all existing and proposed physical features such as fire
hydrants, utilities, utility box location, floodlights, drain facilities, recreation facilities and natural
features that are to be maintained or removed, along with a statement setting forth the method
by which these features shall be preserved or maintained.
7. Elevations of each building, structure or groups of buildings shown on all
sides.
8. A full- color rendering which shows the general character of architecture
and reasonably depicts the typical design layout. A colored photo ( minimum size eight inches by
ten inches) may be substituted for the original.
18. 24 (7) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
9. The amount of improved and unimproved open space in number of net
square feet as required pursuant to this chapter shall be computed and submitted.
10. Street cross- section details and approximate curb radii, including public
and private streets.
11. All maps, plans and diagrams shall include reproducibles, except for the
required colored renderings. Where possible, all exhibits may be combined and shall become
the property of the City.
12. All drawings shall be on 24- inch by 36- six- inch sheets.
13. Each map, except elevations, shall be drawn to an engineer's scale of no
smaller than one inch equals 50 feet and no larger than one inch equals ten feet.
14. All sheets shall have a border one inch from the side and within the
border shall state, " PRD Permit No. sheet of sheets
15. If more than one sheet for any exhibit is necessary, an index sheet shall
be used showing the relationship of each sheet.
16. A cover sheet shall be submitted, which shall state the following:
a. Name, address and telephone number of owner.
b. Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
C. List of contents.
d. Name, address and telephone number and qualifications of
preparer of each exhibit.
e. Title of project.
Prior Code Appendix A 784)
Section 18. 24. 110 Hearing Procedure
A. Upon completion of the application, the hearing shall be set for the PRD permit
combined with the tentative subdivision map. All noticing, hearing procedure and appeals shall
be as set forth in Title 17 of this code for tentative maps.
B. In addition to the findings for the tentative map the following findings shall be
made for the PRD permit:
1. That the proposed use at the particular location will provide a service or
facility which will contribute to the general well- being of the neighborhood or the City.
2. That such use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in
the vicinity.
3. That there is compliance with all requirements of this chapter.
4. That the granting of such permit is consistent with and will not adversely
affect the General Plan or any adopted plan of any other governmental agency.
5. That adverse environmental impacts resulting from implementation of the
PRD will be reasonably mitigated so that the overall benefit to be gained by approval is greater
than the environmental detriment.
6. That necessary public facilities and services are existing or will be
provided to serve the PRD, including schools, sewers, water service, drainage facilities, parks,
recreational facilities and public streets.
7. That the proposed PRD is a substantial environmental improvement over
that which would ordinarily be allowed under conventional zoning approaches.
8. That the traffic circulation and control is found adequate to provide for the
PRD and will allow for a level of fire suppression and police surveillance equal to or better than
conventional zoning.
Prior Code Appendix A 785)
18. 24 (8) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 24. 120 Deviations from Development Standards
Deviations from any of the development criteria set forth in Section 18. 24.080, except
the requirements for open space, may be granted by the City Council, if, after considering all the
evidence, it is determined and reflected by written findings contained in the resolution granting
the PRD permit, that all the following facts exist:
A. Because of special circumstances applicable to the property, including size,
shape, topography, location or surroundings, the strict application of the requirements deprive
such property of privileges enjoyed by other properties in the vicinity under identical zone
classification.
B. Any deviation granted does not constitute a grant of special privileges
inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and zone in which property
is situated.
C. That the granting of the deviation does not adversely affect the physical
environment or surrounding properties.
D. That the granting of the deviation does not adversely affect the General Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 789)
Section 18. 24.130 Modification Conditions
A request for modification of any dimension shown on the approved PRD permit and any
site development plan approved thereby may be submitted to and approved by the Director of
Planning, provided such modification shall not exceed 25 percent of any one dimension and;
provided further, however, that in no case shall a required front yard, side yard, rear yard, or
specified distance between structures be reduced below the minimum requirement specified in
this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix A 789)
Section 18.24. 140 Validity of Permit
A PRD permit granted by the City shall be valid for the life of the tentative map, and the
effective date thereof. Failure to record a final map in conformance with the tentative
subdivision map and PRD permit within the time allowed by the subdivision ordinance shall void
the PRD permit and tentative subdivision map, unless an extension of time has been granted
pursuant to the subdivision ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 790)
Section 18. 24. 150 Extension of Time for Permit
The Director of Planning may grant an extension of time for a PRD permit as part of the
grant of an extension of time for the concurring approved tentative subdivision map subject to
the rules and regulations of such extension.
Prior Code Appendix A 792)
18. 24 (9) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 26
FP Floodplain Overlay Zone
Sections:
18. 26.010 Purpose
18. 26.020 Definitions
18. 26.030 Application of the Article
18. 26.040 Permitted Uses
18. 26.050 Restrictions
18. 26.060 Certification
Section 18. 26.010 Purpose
Prior Code Appendix A 793; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
Section 18. 26.020 Definitions
Prior Code Appendix A 794; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
Section 18. 26.030 Application of the Article
Prior Code Appendix A 795; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
Section 18. 26.040 Permitted Uses
Prior Code Appendix A 796; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
Section 18. 26.050 Restrictions
Prior Code Appendix A 797; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
Section 18. 26.060 Certification
Prior Code Appendix A 798; Ord. No. 97- 15, Repealed and Replaced, 11/ 7/ 97)
18. 26 ( l) Vista 7/ 12/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 28
R- 1 Residence Zone
Sections:
18. 28.010 Permitted Uses
18. 28.020 Building Height
18. 28.030 Front Yards
18. 28.040 Side yards
18. 28.050 Rear Yards
18. 28.060 Building Site Area
18. 28.070 Lot Coverage
18. 28.080 Utilities
Section 18. 28.010 Permitted Uses
In an R- 1 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. A one- family dwelling on each lot or building site.
B. Accessory buildings and uses as defined by Section 18. 02. 045, 18. 02. 050 and
18. 02.055, including, but not limited to, the following buildings or structures: private garages,
radio and television receiving antennas, and other accessory or incidental to the primary uses
permitted by this section.
C. Guesthouses provided the required setbacks for a single story structure shall
comply with Section 18. 58. 270; two- story structures of which the guest house is a part shall
comply with the setbacks of the main building.
D. Home occupations
E. Flower and vegetable gardening
F. The following poultry and animals may be kept in the R- 1 zone, subject to the
conditions listed below and Section 18. 58.470:
1. One adult dog and one adult cat for each 5, 000 square feet of land within
a parcel; provided that no more than four of each animal are kept on any parcel, not including
offspring under four months of age.
2. Hens, rabbits, and other small domesticated animals that are normally
kept outdoors; provided that no more than two of any one type of animal, or combination
thereof, may be kept on any single lot or parcel.
3. Two llamas for each half acre of land within any lot or parcel, or portion
thereof in excess of one- half acre, subject to the requirement that at least 400 square feet of
land be provided for each animal, one-third of which must be covered; and provided that a minor
use permit has been obtained and remains valid pursuant to Section 18. 66.050, Chapter 18. 66
of Title 18.
4. One pot- bellied pig for each parcel or lot, provided that the parcel or lot
contains at least 6,000 square feet of land, and provided further that a license has been
obtained and remains valid under Section 6. 07.055, Chapter 6. 07, Title 6 of the Vista Municipal
Code. One horse, as a private stable for each lot or building site containing one or more acres
of land, and one additional horse of each additional one- half acre, or portion thereof, in excess
of one acre; and, provided that a minor use permit has been obtained and remains valid
pursuant to Section 18. 66.050, Chapter 18. 66 of Title 18, one horse on any lot or parcel
containing less than one acre, but not less than one- half acre of land.
5. One sheep or one female goat may be kept in a pen or enclosure with an
area of not less than 200 square feet on any parcel or lot containing not less than one acre of
land, provided that a minor use permit has been obtained and remains valid pursuant to Section
18. 66.050, chapter 18. 66 of Title 18.
18. 28 ( l) Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
All poultry and animals shall be kept and maintained in such manner as to
prevent offensive odors, flies, dust, noise and other nuisances from occurring. Failure to
maintain poultry and animals in such a manner free of nuisance and disturbance shall constitute
a public nuisance, and a misdemeanor, subject to any and all enforcement provisions, penalties
and remedies available pursuant to Chapter 18. 82 of the Vista Municipal Code.
A. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site.
H. The following uses, provided a special use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Museums and libraries not operated for profit
2. Borrow pits and quarries for rock, sand, gravel, decomposed granite or
soil
3. Cemeteries upon the issuance of a permit pursuant to City ordinance.
4. Public parks
5. Residential care homes where more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site,
subject to the provisions of Section 18. 58. 100.
6. Churches
I. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Clubs and lodges
2. Parks
3. Public buildings and uses
4. Radio and television transmitters
5. Recreational facilities
6. Schools
J. Transitional housing for battered/ abused women and children. Limited to six or
fewer adults with unlimited dependent children. The use must be operated or authorized by a
government agency.
K. Employee housing
L. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to residential
uses in the same zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 801; Ord. No. 91- 37, Amended, 11/ 12/ 91; Ord. No. 92-4, Amended, 04/ 28/ 92;
Ord. No. 93- 3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 93- 26, Amended, 11/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 97- 16, Amended,
08/ 26/ 1997; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended, 10/ 9/ 12; Ord. No. 2015- 19, Amended 9/ 22/ 15)
Section 18. 28.020 Building Height
In an R- 1 zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is the lesser.
Prior Code Appendix A 802)
Section 18. 28.030 Front Yards
In an R- 1 zone, no building or structure shall be erected or maintained less than 50 feet
from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 803)
Section 18. 28.040 Side yards
Every lot and building site in an R- 1 zone shall have a side yard on each side of the lot
or building site, and each side yard shall be not less than ten feet in width, except that any such
lot or building site occupied by a main building on February 1, 1974, may have a side yard of not
18. 28 ( 2) Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
less than seven and five- tenths feet on any side of such lot or building site not parallel to a
public right- of-way or private street if, at the time of construction of such main building, such lot
or building site was in the R- 1- B zone and such side yard was less than ten feet in width.
Prior Code Appendix A 804)
Section 18. 28.050 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in an R- 1 zone shall have a rear yard not less than ten feet in
depth except in the following circumstance:
A. A second story portion of any main building shall not be located closer than 20
feet from the rear property line in those cases where such rear property line adjoins any portion
of the side yard property line of residential zoned property.
Prior Code Appendix A 805)
Section 18.28.060 Building Site Area
Every lot and building site in the R- 1 zone shall have a minimum area of 10, 000 square
feet, or any incremental increase thereto in 1, 000- square-foot increments, as specified by the
numerals following the zoning designation R- 1, deleting the last three zeros, i. e., R- 1 ( 11)
meaning 11, 000 square feet minimum, R- 1 ( 12) meaning 12, 000 square feet minimum, etc. The
designation " R- 1" without additional numerals designates the minimum 10, 000- square-foot lot
size. Although there is no maximum permitted lot size, the maximum designation shall be R- 1
20).
Prior Code Appendix A 806)
Section 18. 28.070 Lot Coverage
A. In the R- 1 zone, all main buildings and accessory building and structures and any
areas used for required driveway, private alleys or required parking space shall not cover more
than 60 percent of the area of the lot or building site.
B. For purposes of this section, lot coverage shall be considered to include all
porches, balconies, breezeways, patio roofs, eaves and awnings. Lot coverage shall not include
fences, walls, uncovered patio slabs or uncovered swimming pools.
Prior Code Appendix A 807)
Section 18. 28.080 Utilities
In the R- 1 zone:
A. Unless stricter provisions are required by other provisions of this title, all
electrical and communication conduit and outdoor conductor service facilities shall be installed
underground within the boundaries of any lot or building site for which a building permit for a
single- family dwelling is requested.
B. No additional poles for such facilities may be installed to provide service for any
such lot or building site, except for required replacement of poles which were installed before
such date.
C. The owner of each such lot or building site shall make the necessary
arrangements with each serving utility for the underground installation required hereby.
D. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground utilities and the adjacent street
lighting system may be placed above ground.
Prior Code Appendix A 808)
18. 28 ( 3) Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 30
R -1 - B Residence Zone
Sections:
18. 30. 010 Permitted Uses
18. 30. 020 Building Height
18. 30. 030 Front Yards
18. 30. 040 Side Yards
18. 30. 050 Rear Yards
18. 30. 060 Building Site Area
18. 30. 070 Lot Coverage
18. 30. 080 Utilities
Section 18. 30.010 Permitted Uses
In an R -1 - B zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. A one - family dwelling on each lot or building site.
B. Accessory buildings and uses as defined by Sections 18. 02. 045, 18. 02. 050 and
18. 02. 055, including, but not limited to, the following buildings or structures: private garages,
radio and television receiving antennas, and other accessory or incidental to the primary uses
permitted by this section.
C. Home occupations
D. Flower and vegetable gardening
E. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site.
F. One stand for the display and sale of only those agricultural products raised on
the premises, provided such stand does not exceed 100 square feet in area and is not located
nearer than 20 feet to any street and; provided further, that such stand may not be located on
any separate parcel less than one -half acre in area.
G. The following uses, provided a special use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Borrow pits and quarries for rock, sand, gravel, decomposed granite or
soil
2. Cemeteries upon the issuance of a permit pursuant to City ordinance
3. Residential care homes where more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site,
subject to the provisions of Section 18. 58. 100.
4. Churches
5. Museums and libraries not operated for profit
6. Public parks
H. The following uses, provided a minor use permit is obtained in accordance with
the provisions of this title:
1. Clubs and lodges
2. Parks
3. Public buildings and uses
3. Radio and television transmitters
4. Recreational facilities
5. Schools
1. The following poultry and animals may be kept in the R -1 - B zone, subject to the
conditions listed below and Section 18. 58.470:
18. 30( l) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
1. One adult dog and one adult cat for each 5, 000 square feet of land within
a parcel; provided that no more than four of each animal are kept on any parcel, not including
offspring under four months of age.
2. Hens, rabbits, and other small domesticated animals that are normally
kept outdoors; provided that no more than two of any one type of animal, or combination
thereof, may be kept on any single lot or parcel.
3. Two llamas for each half acre of land within any lot or parcel, or portion
thereof in excess of one -half acre, subject to the requirement that at least 400 square feet of
land be provided for each animal, one -third of which must be covered; and provided that a minor
use permit has been issued pursuant to Section 18. 66.050, Chapter 18. 66 of Title 18 and
remains valid.
4. One pot - bellied pig for each parcel or lot, provided that the parcel or lot
contains at least 6, 000 square feet of land, and provided further that a license has been
obtained and remains valid under Section 6. 06. 055, Chapter 6. 06, Title 6 of the Vista Municipal
Code.
All poultry and animals shall be kept and maintained in such manner as to prevent
offensive odors, flies, dust, noise and other nuisances from occurring. Failure to maintain poultry
and animals in such a manner free of nuisance and disturbance shall constitute a public
nuisance, and a misdemeanor, subject to any and all enforcement provisions, penalties and
remedies available pursuant to Chapter 18. 82 of the Vista Municipal Code.
J. Transitional housing for battered /abused women and children. Limited to six or
fewer adults with unlimited dependent children. The use must be operated or authorized by a
government agency.
K. Employee housing
L. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to residential
uses in the same zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 951; Ord. No. 92 -4, Amended, 04/ 28/ 92; Ord. No. 93 -3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord.
No. 93 -26, Amended, 11/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 97 -16, Amended, 08/ 26/ 1997; Ord. No. 2015 -19, Amended
10/ 23/ 15)
Section 18. 30.020 Building Height
In an R -1 - 6 zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is the lesser.
Prior Code Appendix A 952)
Section 18. 30.030 Front Yards
In an R -1 - 6 zone, no building or structure shall be erected or maintained less than 50
feet from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 953)
Section 18. 30.040 Side Yards
Every lot and building site in an R -1 - 6 zone shall have a side yard on each side of the lot
or building site, and each side yard shall be not less than five feet in width.
Prior Code Appendix A 955)
Section 18. 30.050 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in an R -1 - 6 zone shall have a rear yard not less than ten feet
in depth except in the following circumstance:
18. 30( 2) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
A second -story portion of any main building shall not be located closer than 20 feet from
the rear property line in those cases where such rear property line adjoins any portion of the
side yard line of residential zoned property.
Prior Code Appendix A 956)
Section 18. 30.060 Building Site Area
Every lot and building site in the R -1 - 13 zone shall have a minimum area of 6, 000 square
feet, or any incremental increase thereto in 500 - square -foot increments, deleting the last two
zeros and inserting a decimal point after the first digit to indicate incremental lot sizes, i. e., R -1-
B ( 8) meaning 8, 000 square feet minimum, R -1 - 13 ( 8. 5) meaning 8, 500 square feet minimum,
etc. The designation " R -1 - 13" without additional numerals designates the minimum 6, 000 square -
foot lot size. Although there is no maximum permitted lot size, the maximum designation shall
be R -1 - 13 ( 9. 5).
Prior Code Appendix A 956)
Section 18. 30.070 Lot Coverage
In an R -1 - 13 zone:
A. All main buildings and accessory buildings and structures and any areas used for
required driveway, private alleys or required parking space shall not cover more than 60 percent
of the area of the lot or building site.
B. For the purposes of this section, " lot coverage" shall be considered to include all
porches, balconies, breezeways, patio roofs, eaves and awnings. Lot coverage shall not include
fences, walls, uncovered patio slabs or uncovered swimming pools.
Prior Code Appendix A 957)
Section 18. 30.080 Utilities
In the R -1 - 13 zone:
A. Unless stricter provisions are required by other provisions of this title, all
electrical and communication conduit and outdoor conductor service facilities shall be installed
underground within the boundaries of any lot or building site for which a building permit for a
single - family dwelling is requested.
B. No additional poles for such facilities may be installed to provide service for any
such lot or building site, except for required replacement of poles which were installed before
such date.
C. The owner of each such lot or building site shall make the necessary
arrangements with each serving utility for the underground installation required hereby.
D. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed ducts, and
other facilities necessary and appurtenant to such underground utilities and the adjacent street
lighting system may be placed above ground.
Prior Code Appendix A 958)
18. 30( 3) ( Vista 10/ 23/ 15)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 31
Accessory Dwelling Units
Sections:
18. 31. 010 Definitions
18. 31. 020 Zones
18. 31. 030 Requirements for an Accessory Dwelling Unit
18. 31. 040 Size
18. 31. 050 Development Standards
18. 31. 060 Height Regulation
18. 31. 070 Parking
18. 31. 080 Architectural Style
18. 31. 090 Fees
18. 31. 100 Inspection Authority
Section 18. 31. 010 Definitions
Accessory Dwelling Unit" means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit
which provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons. It shall include
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as
the single-family dwelling is situated. An accessory dwelling unit may take the following forms:
Attached" means the accessory dwelling unit is attached to the primary residence.
Detached" means the accessory dwelling unit is separated from the primary residence.
Repurposed Existing Space" means existing space within the primary residence
e. g., master bedroom) has been converted into an independent living unit, or an accessory
dwelling unit.
Existing Space" for the purpose of defining an allowable space that can be converted
to an accessory dwelling unit means within the four walls and roofline of any legally permitted
structure existing on or after January 1, 2017, that can be made safely habitable under local
building codes at the determination of the Building Official regardless of any noncompliance with
zoning standards.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 020 Zones
An attached or detached accessory dwelling unit is permitted in the following zones: R- 1-
B, R- 1, E- 1, A- 1 and O- R zone, excluding all areas within the boundaries of Specific Plan No.
24, the Shadowridge Specific Plan, and the Vista Business Park Specific Plan. An accessory
dwelling unit located within repurposed existing space is permitted on any lot in a zone that
allows single- family residences by right.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 030 Requirements for an Accessory Dwelling Unit
An accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted provided all of the following standards are
met:
A. There must be no more than one existing single-family dwelling on the lot for
18. 31 ( 1) Vista 9/ 13/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
which an application under this chapter is submitted.
B. No zoning or building code violation exists on the lot which the accessory
dwelling unit is to be located.
C. The utility service for the accessory dwelling unit must be serviced through the
existing single-family residence service.
D. The accessory dwelling unit is not intended for sale separate from the primary
residence and may be rented.
E. The accessory dwelling unit is located on the same lot as the existing residence.
F. Local building code requirements shall apply to the accessory dwelling unit, as
appropriate.
G. Accessory dwelling units shall not be required to provide fire sprinklers if they are
not required for the primary residence, and may employ alternative methods for fire protection.
H. The two units must share the same address. The owner may request the City
Planner to differentiate the units by assigning additional numeric or alphabetical designations.
I. The two units may be constructed simultaneously, provided that all requirements
of this chapter are satisfied.
J. All applicable development impact fees for an accessory dwelling unit shall be
waived if: ( 1) the accessory dwelling unit is occupied by an eligible household during the first ten
10) years following the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the unit; and ( 2) the owner
of the property has executed and caused the recordation of a regulatory agreement or deed
restriction, in a form approved by the City Attorney, to assure compliance with this paragraph,
and such rules as may be necessary so that the unit is eligible to be counted towards the City' s
regional housing needs assessment. An eligible household shall consist of either ( 1) a lower
income household which has a gross income which does not exceed 80 percent ( 80%) of the
San Diego County median, adjusted by household size; or ( 2) a family member or caregiver
providing regular care to an owner or occupant of the primary unit in need of that care. If the
accessory dwelling unit is occupied by an eligible household pursuant to clause ( 1), a regulatory
agreement shall be executed and recorded prior to occupancy. The waiver of development
impact fees shall be in effect for five years or for the first one hundred ( 100) permitted accessory
dwelling units from August 13, 2019, whichever comes first.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/ 27/ 03; Ord. No. 2006-22, Amended, 12/ 12/ 06; Ord. No. 2007- 13, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07; Ord.
No 2015- 7, Amended, 4/ 28/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended,
08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 040 Size
A. Attached. The maximum size of an attached accessory dwelling unit shall not
exceed 50 percent ( 50%) of the size of the primary residence, or 1, 200 square feet, whichever
is less.
B. Detached. The maximum size of a detached accessory dwelling unit shall be
1, 200 square feet. If a garage or other non- inhabited accessory structure is proposed in
conjunction with the accessory dwelling unit, the square footage of the additional accessory
structure shall not be counted toward the square footage of the accessory dwelling unit.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 050 Development Standards
All accessory dwelling units must comply with the setbacks within the zone which are
applicable to the primary structure, with the following exceptions:
18. 31 ( 2) Vista 9/ 13/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
A. No setback shall be required for the conversion of a legally permitted garage
structure existing on or after January 1, 2017, to an accessory dwelling unit.
B. A setback of five (5) feet from side and rear lot lines is required for any accessory
dwelling unit constructed above a garage.
Ord. No. 2003- 15, Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11,
Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 060 Height Regulation
The height of an accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed one story, except that a
second story structure may be approved provided it is determined the structure is not out of
character with the neighborhood and the existing primary structure.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 070 Parking
A. One additional paved parking space must be provided for the accessory dwelling
unit. The parking space must be provided on the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is
located, and may be provided as tandem parking within the paved driveway. The one additional
parking space is in addition to the minimum number of parking spaces required for a singlefamily
residence, as specified in Chapter 18. 54 of this code.
B. Parking is not required for an accessory dwelling unit that is located within onehalf
mile of public transit or as provided by Government Code Section 65852.2( d).
C. Replacement parking: When a garage, carport, or covered parking structure is
demolished or converted in conjunction with the construction of an accessory dwelling unit,
replacement parking shall be located on the same lot as the accessory dwelling unit in any
configuration.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 080 Architectural Style
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Repealed, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18. 31. 090 Fees
Accessory dwelling units shall be subject to all applicable plan check and inspection fees
for the Building Division' s review and inspection of the structure, as adopted by the City Council.
Development impact fees shall not apply for sewer or water connections for accessory dwelling
units; all other development impact fees applicable to single-family residences shall apply.
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 11, Amended, 08/ 13/ 19)
Section 18. 31. 100 Inspection Authority
Ord. No. 1993-2, Enacted, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 1994-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 94; Ord. No. 2003- 15,
Amended, 05/27/ 03; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Repealed, 10/ 24/ 17)
18. 31 ( 3) Vista 9/ 13/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 32
Single- Family Subdivision Lot Averaging
Sections:
18. 32.010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 32.020 Application of Zone
18. 32.030 Limiting Conditions
18. 32.040 Additional Lot Averaging Guidelines
Section 18. 32.010 Purpose of Provisions
The purpose of this chapter is to allow a limited degree of flexibility in the design of
relatively small subdivisions (ten to 25 lots) to vary lot sizes in order to preserve or protect certain
environmental features on the project site. Lot averaging shall not be used to introduce lot sizes
which are incompatible with surrounding land uses.
Prior Code Appendix A 960)
Section 18. 32.020 Application of Zone
The minimum lot size required for a single-family subdivision in the residential zones A- 1,
E- 1 and R- 1 may be reduced by the Planning Commission, subject to the limitations of Section
18. 32. 030. Other lots proposed in the subdivision shall be equal to, or greater than, the minimum
lot size such that the average lot size is greater than, or equal to, the minimum lot size of the
zone. The Planning Commission, or the Council on appeal, shall only approve this lot averaging if
the findings required by Section 18. 32. 040 can be made.
Prior Code Appendix A 961)
Section 18. 32.030 Limiting Conditions
Any request for lot averaging shall be limited by the following conditions:
A. The single-family residential subdivision must be processed simultaneously and
must contain at least ten, but no more than 25, lots.
B. A maximum of one-third of the total lots in the subdivision may be reduced below
the minimum lot size.
C. No lot shall be reduced smaller than 80 percent of the minimum lot size specified
for the zone of the property being subdivided. In no case shall any lot be reduced to a size smaller
than 8, 000 square feet.
D. The remaining lots in the subdivision shall be equal to or greater than the minimum
lot size specified for the zone of the property being subdivided.
E. All lots which are larger than the minimum lot size shall be prohibited, through
deed restriction or other means, from further subdivision in the future.
Prior Code Appendix A 962)
Section 18. 32.040 Additional Lot Averaging Guidelines
In addition to the findings required for approval of a subdivision, the Planning
Commission, or City Council if appropriate, shall make the following additional findings for lot
averaging:
A. That there is an environmental benefit derived from the employment of lot
averaging, such as reduced grading or protection of sensitive environmental features.
18. 32 ( l) Vista 7/ 20/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. That the entire subdivision, including lots smaller than the minimum lot size, is
compatible with all surrounding existing and planned land uses.
Prior Code Appendix A 963)
18. 32 ( 2) Vista 7/ 20/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.34
R-M Multi- Residential Zone
Sections:
18. 34.010 Permitted Uses
18. 34.020 Building Height
18. 34.030 Front Yards
18. 34.040 Side Yards
18. 34.050 Rear Yards
18. 34.060 Building Site Area
18. 34.070 Density Designation
18. 34.080 Distance Between Dwellings ( Repealed 1/ 14/ 20)
18. 34.090 Open Space
18. 34. 100 Landscaping
18. 34. 110 Development Standards
18. 34. 120 Lower Income Housing ( Repealed 5/29/ 15)
Section 18.34.010 Permitted Uses
In the R- M zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. A one-family dwelling on each lot or building site.
B. Accessory buildings and uses as defined by Sections 18. 02. 045, 18. 02. 050 and
18. 02. 055, including, but not limited to, the following buildings or structures: private garages,
radio and television receiving' antennas, and other accessory or incidental to the primary uses
permitted by this section.
C. Home occupations
D. Flower and vegetable gardening
E. Multiple dwellings
F. Residential care homes, provided no more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building
site.
G. Boardinghouses
H. Apartment or residential hotels
I. One adult dog or cat per dwelling unit
J. One stand for the display and sale of only those agricultural products produced
on the premises subject to the following conditions:
1. Such stand shall not exceed 100 square feet in area
2. Deleted
3. No such stand shall be located closer than 20 feet to any street line
4. No such stand shall be located on any parcel or lot less than one- half
acre in area.
K. The following uses are permitted in an R- M zoning district, provided a special
use permit is obtained according to the provisions of this title:
1. Cemeteries
2. Museums and libraries not operated for profit
3. Churches
4. Residential care homes where more than six persons, exclusive of the
owner or manager and their family, are housed or otherwise cared for on any one building site,
subject to the provisions of Section 18. 58. 100.
5. One emergency shelter within the entire zone, not to exceed 60 beds in
18. 34 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
total where all of the following are satisfied:
1. The shelter is located on a lot or commonly-owned adjacent lots with an
area of at least three acres; and
2. The shelter will operate as an integral part of a larger existing facility
which includes at least 20 transitional housing units and 20 permanent housing units, with the
total number of those units at least equalling the number of beds in the shelter.
L. The following uses are permitted in an R- M zoning district, provided a minor use
permit is obtained according to the provisions of this title:
1. Clubs and lodges
2. Parks
3. Public buildings and uses
4. Radio and television transmitters
5. Recreational facilities
6. Schools
M. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to apartments.
N. Transitional housing, subject to development standards applicable to apartments.
O. Employee housing
Prior Code Appendix A 1101; Ord. No. 93- 3, Amended, 02/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 93- 26, Amended, 11/ 23/ 93;
Ord. No. 2012- 5, Deleted 18. 34. 010. K.2, 3/ 27/ 12; Ord. No. 2012- 5, Amended, 3/ 27/ 12; Ord. 2015- 19,
Amended 10/ 23/ 15; Ord. No. 2019- 16, Amended, 11/ 12/ 19)
Section 18.34.020 Building Height
In an R- M zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is less.
Prior Code Appendix A 1102)
Section 18. 34.030 Front Yards
A. Attached units. No building or structure shall be erected or maintained less than
50 feet from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts, or less than 20 feet
from the ultimate street line of the street upon which the building site fronts, whichever is
greater. Noise walls or screen walls approved as part of a site development plan are exempt
from this requirement if at least five feet of landscaping is maintained in front of the wall.
B. Detached units. Separate detached dwelling units within the R- M Zone shall
maintain a front setback of 20 feet from the ultimate street line or driveway line to the face of
garage, and 15 feet from the ultimate street line or driveway line to the remainder of the
residential unit. Up to five percent of the residential units in an individual project may vary from
this standard.
Prior Code Appendix A 1103; Ord. No. 2012- 7, Amended 5/ 22/ 12)
Section 18.34.040 Side Yards
A. Attached units. Multi- unit buildings within the R- M Zone shall have a side yard
on each side of the lot or building, and each side yard shall be not less than 15 feet in width,
except where such side yard abuts existing, developed single-family zones, in which case the
side yard shall be 20 feet.
B. Detached units. Separate detached dwelling units within the R- M Zone shall have
a side yard on each side of the lot or building, and each side yard shall be not less than ten feet
in width. Maximum encroachment into the required side yards shall not exceed two feet in
depth by eight feet in width, so that at least eight feet is provided in locations where
18. 34 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
encroachments are permitted.
C. Exceptions. Legally recorded parcels with an average width of less than 60 feet
may have a side yard setback reduction to a minimum of five feet on one side yard of the parcel,
provided such side yard is not a street side yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 1104; Ord. No. 2012- 7, Amended 5/ 22/ 12)
Section 18.34.050 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in the R-M zone shall have a rear yard of not less than 15 feet
in depth except where such rear yard abuts existing, developed single-family zones, in which
case the rear yard shall be 20 feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 1105)
Section 18.34.060 Building Site Area
A. R- M zoned property with a suffix of "15" or greater shall have a minimum lot area
of six thousand square feet.
B. R- M zoned property with a suffix less than " 15" shall have a minimum lot area of
9,000 square feet.
C. Smaller sized lots may be allowed under a condominium housing permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 1106)
Section 18.34.070 Density Designation
The maximum density, in dwelling units per acre, within each R- M zoned property shall
be specified through the use of a " density designator." The zoning map shall include this
designator, expressed as a whole number, on each parcel zoned R- M. As an example, R- M ( 15)
zoning on a given parcel means that this property allows multiple-family uses at a density not to
exceed 15 dwelling units per acre. In no case shall the density designator exceed the maximum
density permitted by the corresponding designation shown on the General Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1107)
Section 18. 34.080 Distance between Dwellings
Prior Code Appendix A 1108; Ord. No. 2012- 7, Amended 5/ 22/ 12; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Repealed 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18.34.090 Open Space
For purposes of encouraging innovative and aesthetic environmental design, every lot
and building site in an R-M zone shall have the following open space. The Director of Planning,
as part of the site development plan or other permit review procedure, shall approve only those
plans which conform to the requirements of this section.
A. Common Usable Open Space.
1. There shall be no less than 125 square feet of common usable open
space for each bedroom and for each studio apartment situated on such lot and building site.
2. The common usable open space required for each lot and building site
shall be so arranged that at least 50 percent thereof shall be provided in not more than two
areas, and any rectangle that can be inscribed within each such area shall not have any single
dimension of less than 30 feet. The remaining required common usable open space may be
distributed throughout the project and need not be in one such large area; provided, however,
no area of less than 50 square feet shall be considered common usable open space.
3. All required common usable open space shall be improved in a manner
appropriate to its intended purposes, and all landscaping shall comply with the requirements of
18. 34 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 34. 100. Natural features of the site reasonably worthy of preservation, as determined
by the Director of Planning as part of the site development plan or other permit review
procedure, may be retained in their natural state and need not be improved, but shall be
maintained and may be improved with such items as irrigation lines and additional plant
materials to assist in assuring the lasting retention of the natural feature being preserved.
4. A minimum of 50 percent of the required common usable open space
shall be located on those portions of the lot or building site which slopes not more than ten
percent.
5. Within the R- M Zone, projects with detached residential units only may
reduce the amount of required common open space up to 25 percent in exchange for an
equivalent increase in private usable open space in the same development. The minimum
dimension of any private open space area to be credited toward common space shall be ten
feet by ten feet. Any increase in private open space shall be spread evenly across the project
site and not confined to specified lots.
B. Private Usable Open Space.
1. a. There shall be no less than 100 square feet of private usable open
space for each ground floor dwelling unit, all of which shall be enclosed by an opaque fence or
wall that will afford some degree of privacy to the residents.
b. Any rectangle that can be inscribed within such space shall have
at least one dimension of not less than eight feet. Not more than 50 percent of such space may
be covered by an overhang, balcony or patio roof not less than seven feet in height.
2. There shall be no less than 50 square feet of private usable open space
for each dwelling unit having no ground floor living area; any rectangle that can be inscribed
within such a space shall have at least one dimension of not less than five feet, and such space
shall have at least one side open to the outdoor area above a point three feet higher than the
floor level of such space.
3. Private usable open space shall be immediately adjacent to, and not
more than four feet above or below, the lowest floor level of the dwelling unit served.
Prior Code Appendix A 1109; Ord. No. 2012- 7, Amended 5/ 22/ 12)
Section 18.34. 100 Landscaping
Every lot and building site in the R- M zone shall have the landscaping required by the
provisions of this section. Such landscaping shall be planted and the irrigation system installed
prior to human occupancy being permitted of the last 25 percent of the units being constructed
on such lot and building site, and in the case of phased development, prior to human occupancy
being permitted of the last 25 percent of the units being constructed on such lot and building site
in each phase.
A. All land areas not occupied or intruded upon by any structure, with the exception
of vehicular access ways and parking areas, pedestrian walkways, and paved or covered
recreational facilities, shall have landscaping.
B. All landscaping areas shall be surrounded by a concrete curb not less than six
inches above final grade or above the asphalt level of any abutting parking lot; provided,
however, that when such landscaping area abuts a concrete sidewalk, masonry wall or building,
such sidewalk, wall or building may be substituted for such curb.
C. Not less than 24 square feet of landscaping area containing at least one tree
minimum 15- gallon size) shall be provided for every ten single- row and for every 20 double- row
uncovered parking stalls, and for every 200 lineal feet of access to carport structures.
D. In no case, except for raised planter boxes around buildings, shall such
landscaping area be less than three feet in width.
E. In addition to plant life, " landscaping" in the R- M zone means and is defined to
also include fountains, ponds, sculpture and walls with ornamental features. All areas abutting
18. 34 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
public or private streets, except for vehicular access ways, shall have a landscaping strip not
less than five feet wide, containing plant life, and a landscaping strip shall be provided
separating all buildings and walls from driveways and parking locations.
F. A landscaping plan drawn to a minimum scale of one inch for each 50 feet shall
indicate the square footage of each landscaping area, shall tabulate the total square footage
of all landscaping areas and the percentage of the total site devoted to landscaping, shall
identify at each landscaping area the types of plants to be planted therein, shall list the
botanical and common names of all plants with the number of each and their container size,
shall clearly portray the entire landscaping layout and the irrigation system, and shall be
submitted as part of the site development plan procedure unless no site plan is required. If no
site development plan is required, such plan shall be submitted prior to issuance of any
building permit.
G. The Director of Planning, as part of the site development plan or other permit
review procedure, shall approve those landscaping plans and installations which conform to
the requirements of this section.
Prior Code Appendix A 1110)
Section 18.34. 110 Development Standards
In an R- M zone, no building or structure shall be hereafter erected or constructed
which does not conform to the requirements of this section. The Director of Planning, as part of
the site development or other permit review procedures, shall approve the erection or
construction of only those buildings or structures which conform to the requirements of this
section.
A. Refuse Collection and Storage.
1. Developments with five or more dwelling units shall provide a common
facility( ies) for the collection and storage of refuse. Developments of four or fewer dwelling
units shall provide an appropriate location ( e. g., an outdoor covered and enclosed space
adjacent to the individual units) for the collection and storage of such materials.
2. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste material
shall conform with the provisions of Section 18. 58.590 of this code.
B. Storage. Each dwelling unit shall have a completely enclosable storage cabinet
having a minimum size of 160 cubic feet. No inside dimension of such cabinet shall be less
than four feet. Such storage cabinet shall be placed within a garage or carport or in an area
accessible from the exterior of the dwelling unit; provided, however, that such storage cabinet
may not interfere with the area required for any vehicular parking space. Furniture, appliances
and other similar equipment shall be stored only within completely enclosed buildings and
shall be completely blocked from the view of the persons outside of the dwelling unit; no
required carport or garage, the interiors of which are within the view of persons on any other
lot or building site, shall be used for such storage.
C. Lighting. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas and other facilities
shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from adjoining properties.
D. Mechanical Equipment. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at
ground or rooftop level, shall be contained in a completely enclosed structure. All wall air
conditioner units shall be blocked from view with materials that are reasonably compatible in
harmony with the architectural styling and detailing of the building.
E. Utilities.
1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television
lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested, or
within any half-street abutting such lot or building site, shall be placed underground, except with
regard to a permit for a lot or building site with a total of four dwelling units existing and to be
18. 34 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
constructed, as to existing facilities. The permittee is responsible for complying the requirements
of this section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities,
including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities. Transformers,
terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct, and other facilities necessarily
appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting systems may be placed above
ground.
2. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and
maintenance of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long-distance
and trunk communications facilities.
3. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the
opinion of the Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing
and able to install cable television lines in the subdivision.
4. a. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an
in- lieu fee may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established
on a cost per-foot basis using a typical 600-foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution
circuit.
b. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding
account to be used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
C. This subdivision may be applied to building permits existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy
is granted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1111; Ord. No. 94- 25, Amended, 10/ 25/ 94)
Section 18.34. 120 Lower Income Housing
Prior Code Appendix A 1112; Ord. No. 2015- 6, Repealed 4/ 28/ 15)
18. 34 ( 6) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 35
M- U Mixed Use Zone
Sections:
18. 35.010 Purpose
18. 35.020 Definitions
18. 35.030 Permitted Uses
18. 35.040 Special Uses
18. 35.050 Minor Uses
18. 35.060 Temporary Uses
18. 35.070 Density Designation
18. 35.080 Development Standards
18. 35.090 Affordable Housing ( Repealed 5/ 29/ 15)
18. 35. 100 N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone
Section 18. 35.010 Purpose
The Mixed Use ( M- U) Zone is applied to areas appropriately suited to developments that
may contain a combination of commercial and residential activities in conformance with the
General Plan. This zone is intended to allow for a mix of residential and commercial, or just
commercial, or just residential ( stand-alone) land uses.
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 35.020 Definitions
Terms defined in the Development Code and, the Vista Downtown Specific Plan shall,
when used in this Chapter, have the meanings assigned to those terms by such Code and Plan.
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 35.030 Permitted Uses
In an M- U zone, the following uses, in isolation or combination, are permitted:
1. Artisan shops
2. Bank or financial facility
3. Broadcasting studios and indoor support facilities
4. Business support services
5. Community gardens
6. Employee housing
7. Hand- Craft Production
8. Health club, small
9. Large recycling collection facilities subject to site development plan
10. Library
11. Light Manufacturing, with commercial only
12. Live/work units
13. Multi- family dwellings
14. Museum
15. Offices, non- medical
16. One adult dog or cat per dwelling unit (including non- conforming land uses)
17. Outdoor seating areas
18. Personal services
19. Pharmacy
18. 35 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
20. Postal services
21. Public or private parks and open space
22. Public parking
23. Retail sales, general
24. Restaurant, excluding drive through facilities
25. Single-family dwellings
26. Small animal clinic
27. Small recycling collection facilities subject to Zoning Administrator review pursuant
to Section 18. 64.030
28. Supermarket
29. Supportive housing, subject to development standards applicable to residential
uses in the same zone.
30. Transit stations
31. Transportation services
32. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12; Ord. 2015- 19, Amended 9/ 22/ 15; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17;
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 35.040 Special Uses
In an M- U Zone, the following uses, whether as an isolated use or in combination with
other uses, may be permitted upon the granting of a Special Use Permit in accordance with
Chapter 18. 74:
1. Automotive service station with or without market
2. Alcoholic beverage sales, offsite sale only (Type 20 or 21 license)
3. Bail bond business
4. Bar or nightclub
5. Bargain basement store
6. Carwash
7. Check casher
8. Church, private clubs, lodges, or assemblies
9. Health club, large
10. Hiring hall or labor center
11. Hospital
12. Hotel or motel
13. Indoor or outdoor commercial recreation
14. Light manufacturing when combined with any residential use
15. Residential care facilities for more than six people
16. Pawn shop
17. Public or private schools
18. Smoke shop
19. Theaters
20. Wireless communications facilities that exceed height limit
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12; Ord. 2013- 6, Amended 4/ 23/ 13)
Section 18. 35.050 Minor Uses
In an M- U Zone, the following uses, whether as an isolated use or in combination with
other uses, may be permitted upon the granting of a Minor Use Permit in accordance with Chapter
18. 66:
1. Day care
18. 35 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Day spa
3. Medical office or laboratory, urgent care
4. Outdoor display and sales
5. Outdoor cooking facilities
6. Personal services restricted
7. Wireless communications facilities that do not exceed height limit
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12; Ord. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18.35.060 Temporary Uses
In an M- U Zone, the following uses may be permitted upon the granting of a Temporary
Use Permit in accordance with Chapter 18. 76:
1. Carnivals, circuses or fairs
2. Farmer's market
3. Seasonal sales, such as pumpkin and Christmas tree sales lots
4. Other similar temporary uses upon approval of a Temporary Use Permit by the
Zoning Administrator.
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18.35.070 Density Designation
The maximum density, in dwelling units per net acre, within each M- U zoned property shall
be specified through the use of a " density designator." The zoning map shall include this
designator, expressed as a whole number, in each geographic area zoned M- U. As an example,
M- U ( 40) zoning in a given geographic area means that this property allows multi- family residential
uses at a density not to exceed 40 units per net acre. If no density designator is included, the
maximum density of 40 dwelling units per acre shall be permitted. The maximum density of 40
dwelling units per net acre may be exceeded with approval of a Special Use Permit if at least 10
percent of the net lot size is dedicated to public open space use.
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18. 35.080 Development Standards
In an M- U Zone:
A. Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be 10, 000 square feet.
B. Setbacks. The following setbacks shall apply in all M- U zoned areas outside the
N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone:
1. Commercial ground floor. If commercial space completely occupies the
ground floor of the building, the following setbacks shall apply:
a. Street front and street side. There are no setbacks required from
the street property line, except as required for corner cutoffs at intersections and on Civic Center
Drive. If setbacks are provided, these areas shall be used only for landscaping and active
pedestrian areas ( e. g., plazas and outdoor dining). Surface parking lots shall be placed behind
buildings where feasible. All parking that is located adjacent to a local street or driveway shall be
set back a minimum of five feet and the setback area shall be fully landscaped. Street front
setbacks on Civic Center Drive shall be 15 feet from the ultimate street property line.
b. Corner cutoff. In order to maintain visibility at street and driveway
intersections, and to provide architectural interest for buildings at corner locations, buildings shall
provide a 10- foot minimum corner cutoff and shall have an entrance to the building from this area.
The minimum cutoff area shall be a triangular area that is determined by measuring 10 feet back
from the corner along both street property lines and drawing a line between the two points. Second
story or higher may cantilever over this setback area.
18. 35 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Interior. None.
d. Abutting residential zone. Fifteen feet for the first two stories when
abutting single-family residential zone ( R- 1- 13, R- 1, E- 1, A- 1, SP with single-family residential
zoning), 25 feet for third story or higher. The setback for third story or higher may be used as
balcony space. Ground surface buffer areas shall be landscaped unless an alley providing direct
vehicular access to the property.
2. Residential ground floor. If commercial space does not completely occupy
the ground floor of the building, the following setbacks shall apply:
a. Street front. Twenty feet from the ultimate street property line.
b. Street side. Fifteen feet from the ultimate street property line.
C. Interior side. Fifteen feet from property line.
d. Interior. Ten feet between buildings.
e. Rear. Fifteen feet from property line.
f. Abutting residential zone. Fifteen feet for the first two stories when
abutting single-family residential zone ( R- 1- 13, R- 1, E- 1, A- 1, SP with single-family residential
zoning), 25 feet for third story or higher. The setback for third story or higher may be used as
balcony space. Ground surface buffer areas shall be landscaped unless an alley providing direct
vehicular access to the property.
C. Distance between dwellings. None.
D. Permitted building height. The maximum building height for all buildings or
structures in M- U zoned areas outside the N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone shall be three stories or 45
feet in height, whichever is less. Additional height may be permitted upon approval of a Special
Use Permit.
E. Parking.
1. Residential. All residential uses outside the N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone must
provide off street parking at the following minimum ratios:
a. Studio: 2 spaces per unit plus 0. 33 guest space per unit.
b. One bedroom: 2 spaces per unit plus 0. 33 guest space per unit.
C. Two bedroom: 2 spaces per unit plus 0. 5 guest space per unit.
d. Three or more bedrooms: 2. 5 spaces per unit plus 0. 5 space for
each additional bedroom above three, plus 0. 5 guest space per unit.
2. Commercial. All commercial uses must provide off street parking in
accordance with Chapter 18. 54 of this code.
3. Shared parking. Any required guest parking may be shared parking and
may be shared with onsite commercial spaces, upon approval of the Planning Commission at a
public hearing.
4. Common parking facilities. A common parking facility, defined as a single
off street parking facility which may be utilized by two or more commercial, business, or
professional land use activities, may be used to provide offsite parking for any commercial uses
if located within 1, 000 feet of the site boundary, upon approval of the Planning Commission at a
public hearing. The designation of reserved spaces within a common parking facility is prohibited.
Common parking facilities may be considered for commercial uses only; no residential spaces
may be provided in an offsite common parking facility.
5. Modification of parking standards. Any land use or development subject to
the approval of a site development plan or special use permit may have its parking requirements
modified as an express condition of approval, upon approval of the Planning Commission at a
public hearing provided that the Commission finds that such modification: ( 1) will permit
reasonably satisfactory parking to serve the use and development; and ( 2) the modification,
overall, will be beneficial to the City of Vista.
F. Landscaping. For all M- U zoned areas outside of the N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone,
permanent landscaping shall occupy a minimum of fifteen percent of the lot area. The minimum
18. 35 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
landscape area may be modified upon approval of the Planning Commission at a public hearing.
Landscaping shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 18. 56 of this code.
G. Screening.
1. Abutting a residential zone. On any exterior boundary line which is a
common property line with any single family residential zone, a masonry wall six feet in height,
measured from the finished grade of the residential property, shall be provided, unless it is found
not to serve any useful screening purpose based on the grade of adjoining properties, in which
case it may be waived by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission.
2. Mechanical equipment. All mechanical equipment, including ducting,
whether at ground or rooftop level, shall be completely enclosed and screened with materials that
are architecturally compatible with the building.
H. Lighting. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas, and other facilities
shall meet the requirements of the City's outdoor lighting standards in Section 18. 58.260 of this
Code.
I. Refuse Collection and Storage. Areas designated for the collection of refuse and
storage of solid waste shall conform to the provisions of Section 18. 58.590 of this Code.
J. Limitations and Exceptions to Permitted Uses and Structures. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Chapter, the following limitations shall apply to the conduct of any use
permitted in the M- U Zone.
1. Outdoor uses. All uses shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed
building except those uses that are permitted via a special use permit, a minor use permit, a
temporary use permit, and outdoor seating and dining as allowed by this Chapter. Other outdoor
uses not specifically listed may be permitted if the use is reasonably compatible with surrounding
uses, subject to approval of a Minor Use Permit by the Zoning Administrator.
2. Shopping cart storage. Shopping cart storage shall be located adjacent to
the entry of a building and shall be screened with a minimum three foot, six inch solid wall and
landscaping to screen views from the public street. The Zoning Administrator may waive this
requirement if it is determined that the screening would substantially interfere with cart
retrieval/ removal. Shopping cart storage shall not intrude into any pedestrian passageway or
public right-of-way. All shopping carts shall be contained or controlled within the boundaries of
the store premises.
K. Sidewalks. Minimum 10- foot wide sidewalks shall front all roadways where new
development or redevelopment is proposed that requires a Site Development Plan, Minor Use
Permit, or Special Use Permit. This requirement may be waived by the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission if it is found that such improvements would serve no beneficial public use.
L. Performance standards. In accordance with the goals of the Vista General Plan,
environmental performance standards are hereby established to protect the community from
hazards, nuisances, and other negative effects; to ensure that land uses are not operated in such
a manner as to cause a detrimental effect on adjacent land uses or the community environment;
and to preserve and enhance the lifestyle of Vista residents through the protection of the public
health, safety and general welfare.
1. Air Quality. Any activity, operation, or device which causes, on a regular
or temporary basis, the release of air contaminants into the atmosphere shall comply with the
rules and regulations of the San Diego County Air Pollution Control District and with the following:
a. Visible emissions. No visible emissions of air contaminates or
particulate matter shall be discharged into the atmosphere. No combustible refuse incineration
shall be permitted.
b. Odors. No material shall be used and no process or activity shall
occur which produces odors that would be detectable at the property line or beyond which would
be obnoxious, displeasing or offensive to a person of ordinary sensitivity.
2. Vibration. No activities shall be permitted which cause objectionable
18. 35 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
vibration to the adjoining property except for construction activities in connection with a valid
building permit.
3. Noise. No noise shall be generated which causes the maximum sound
level to exceed the noise levels specified in Chapter 8.32 of this Code.
4. Hours of operation. Any nonresidential use shall not operate between the
hours of 10: 00 PM and 7:00 AM, unless authorized by approval of a Minor Use Permit in
accordance with Chapter 18.66. If a nonresidential use is subject to a Special Use Permit, such
hours of operation may be modified through approval of the Special Use Permit.
M. Dwelling unit size. The gross floor area of any dwelling unit in the M- U Zone shall
not be less than that prescribed in Section 18. 58.550 of this Code, unless modified through
approval of the Planning Commission upon a finding that a reduction in unit sizes will serve the
public health and welfare. Dwelling units subject to affordability restrictions in compliance with
state and federal legal standards are eligible for reduction up to 25 percent of the minimum unit
size prescribed by this Code, subject to approval of the decision making body.
N. Outdoor Space. A minimum outdoor space of 140 square feet shall be provided
per dwelling unit. Outdoor space may be provided as common open space or private outdoor
space. Any required common outdoor space shall have minimum surface level dimensions of 20
feet and a minimum area of 400 square feet. Landscaping and seating shall be permanently
integrated into all required outdoor spaces. The developer may pay a fee in lieu of providing the
required outdoor space, in the amount of the City' s park fee per dwelling unit. This fee shall be
paid in addition to the standard park fee assessed per unit.
O. Distance between buildings. A minimum distance of 10 feet shall separate exterior
walls of separate buildings containing dwelling units on the same lot. The windows or
windows/doors of any one dwelling unit may not face the windows or windows/doors of any other
dwelling unit unless separated by a distance of 10 feet or more except where the angle between
the wall of the separate dwelling units in 90 degrees or more. Walls parallel to each other shall
be considered to be at a zero degree angle.
P. Access to dwelling unit. When a mixed use building contains four or more dwelling
units with at least one unit taking entrance from the third or a higher floor, all dwelling units shall
be served by an elevator other than those with ground floor entrances. This requirement shall
not apply to residential only projects.
Q. Laundry facilities. Laundry facilities, consisting of working washer and dryer utility
connections, shall be provided within each residential dwelling unit.
R. Storage space, private. A minimum of 90 cubic feet of storage space shall be
provided for each residential unit outside such unit unless a private attached garage, serving only
the dwelling unit, is provided. Such private storage space shall have a minimum horizontal
surface area of 24 square feet and shall be fully enclosed and lockable.
S. Uses within setbacks
1. Street front and street side setback. No person shall construct, locate, or
maintain within the space between a street and a setback line established by ordinance or by this
title, any building, wall, fence or structure except:
a. General Exceptions
i. Driveways and walks, provided that a driveway shall be
limited to that area reasonably necessary to provide safe and efficient ingress to and egress from
off-street parking spaces located behind a setback area;
ii. Eaves may project into a required setback area for a
distance not to exceed thirty (30) inches;
iii. Flagpoles limited to one per site;
iv. Footings and public utility vaults if fully subterranean;
V. Landscape accent lighting not to exceed 18 inches in height;
vi. Necessary railings adjacent to stairways;
18. 35 ( 6) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
vii. Retaining walls, planters, or curbs which are not more than
36 inches in height above ground surface at the time of construction;
viii. Subterranean parking garages may extend to the street
property line including equipment, service, utility and storage areas provided such areas do not
have any door, window or other opening to the outside along the street property line;
ix. Uncovered steps or landings not over four feet high as
measured parallel to the natural or finish ground level may project into the required setback area
for a length of 14 feet measured parallel to the building. Such steps and landings may project
into the required setback area to the property line.
b. Storage of material prohibited. No person shall store materials or
equipment within the space between a street and a setback line established by ordinance or by
this title, except temporarily during construction on the same premises.
2. Interior setback. No person shall construct, locate or maintain within the
space between a property line and an interior setback line established by ordinance or by this
title, any building, wall, fence, or structure except:
a. General Exceptions.
i. Boundary line walls;
ii. Eaves may project into a required setback area for a
distance not to exceed thirty (30) inches;
iii. Footings and public utility vaults if fully subterranean;
iv. Railings adjacent to stairways;
V. Retaining walls, planters, or curbs which are not more than
36 inches in height above ground surface at the time of construction;
vi. Subterranean and semi- subterranean parking garages may
extend to the interior property line including equipment, service, utility and storage areas provided
such areas do not have any door, window or other opening to the outside along the interior
property line;
vii. Uncovered steps or landings not over four feet high as
measured parallel to the natural or finish ground level may project into the required setback area
for a length of 14 feet measured parallel to the building.
b. Storage prohibited. No required interior setback area shall be used
to store any motor vehicle, trailer, camper, boat, or parts thereof, equipment or any type of
antenna except as provided for in this title.
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12; Ord. 2012- 7, Amended 5/ 22/ 12; Ord. 2017-4, Amended 4/ 11/ 17)
18. 35.090 Affordable Housing
Ord. 2012- 3, Enacted 2/ 28/ 12; Ord. 2015- 6, Repealed 5/ 29/ 15)
18. 35. 100 N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone
The N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone is depicted on the map following this section. The following
development standards shall apply within the N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone. If not specified, the
development standards in 18. 35.080 shall apply.
A. Setbacks.
1. Residential ground floor. If commercial space does not completely occupy
the ground floor of the building, the following setbacks shall apply:
a. Street front. Ten feet from the ultimate street property line.
b. Street side. Ten feet from the ultimate street property line.
C. Interior side. Ten feet from property line.
d. Interior. Ten feet between buildings.
e. Rear. Ten feet from property line.
18. 35 ( 7) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
f. Abutting residential zone. Fifteen feet for the first two stories when
abutting single-family residential zone ( R- 1- 13, R- 1, E- 1, A- 1, SP with single-family residential
zoning), 25 feet for third story or higher. The setback for third story or higher may be used as
balcony space. Ground surface buffer areas shall be landscaped unless an alley providing direct
vehicular access to the property.
B. Permitted building height. The maximum building height for all buildings or
structures shall be four stories or 60 feet in height, whichever is less. Additional height may be
permitted upon approval of a Special Use Permit.
C. Parking.
1. Residential. All residential uses must provide off street parking at the following
minimum ratios:
a. Studio: 1 space per unit plus 0.25 guest space per unit.
b. One bedroom: 1 space per unit plus 0.25 guest space per unit.
C. Two bedroom: 2 spaces per unit plus 0.25 guest space per unit.
d. Three or more bedrooms: 2. 5 spaces per unit plus 0. 25 guest space
per unit.
D. Landscaping. Permanent landscaping shall occupy a minimum of ten percent of
the lot area. The minimum landscape area may be modified upon approval of the Planning
Commission at a public hearing. Landscaping shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 18. 56
of this code.
Ord. 2017-4, Added 4/ 11/ 17)
18. 35 ( 8) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone 0 500' ' '" IDC Feet
Rol
UW
Fall ..
y^. +
a y Wyk
W Botiie0r e E, Bob er Dr ?, R"
r
M03 dorsey
w -
G8Ali@t+pr
a fl lan l`f
a
Rock"Rd J 1 .-..,Cananea St ezA,
v f f 0 AP
y I
Y r
FM+
ot
r a,
q P r
k ** ..: i
Al
tr C l for nen.
Ai euuia Je lr: i'!
yA+ -,
yam-. y r (j
N. Santa Fe Overlay Zone " r, ti,
t
c rraF
nrs protlrrcY rs ar nar.anai purp s a may nor nave neer pre{a-. aea erglrreerrrrg. n swveyan i v
o3P3 llSers of ulrs inlynraJron SnIXIA%rPviery o cpnsu.R: ne pnmey tlala an0 inlrv 1.Vn:... irR lnP tesaOrN:}' ol; ne Mlnnld'
18. 35 ( 9) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (1) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Chapter 18.36
O-P Office-Professional Zone
Sections:
18.36.010 Permitted Uses
18.36.020 Special Uses
18.36.030 Minor Uses
18.36.040 Building Height
18.36.050 Front Yards
18.36.060 Side Yards
18.36.070 Rear Yards
18.36.080 Building Site Area
18.36.090 Distance Between Buildings
18.36.100 Accessory Buildings
18.36.110 Enclosed Building Required
18.36.120 Lot Coverage
18.36.130 Development Standards
18.36.140 Utilities
Section 18.36.010 Permitted Uses
In an O-P zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Drug and proprietary:
1. Prescription pharmacy
B. Schools:
1. Elementary schools
2. Junior high schools
3. Senior high schools
4. Schools for handicapped, including the blind
C. Business, professional and labor organizations and services:
1. Labor unions and similar organizations, excluding union halls,
2. Professional membership organizations (medical associations, etc.)
D. Miscellaneous services:
1. Ticket sales offices, including theatrical and sporting events
2. Barbershops and beauty parlors, provided such uses do not cumulatively
occupy more than ten percent of the gross floor area of the building in which they are located.
E. Security and commodity brokers, dealers, exchanges, and services:
1. Security brokers, dealers and flotation services ( includes bond dealers
and brokers, etc.)
2. Commodity contracts brokers and dealers services
3. Security and commodity exchanges
4. Security and commodity allied services ( includes exchange
clearinghouses, investment advisory services).
F. Insurance carriers, agents, brokers and services:
1. Insurance carriers ( mutual stock, crop, livestock, surety, bail bonding,
funeral, marine, pension funds, title insurance, etc.).
2. Insurance agents, brokers and services (includes adjustors, etc.)
3. Hospital and medical service organizations ( includes Blue Cross, Blue
Shield, etc.).
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (2) ( Vista 1/8/21)
G. Real estate and related services:
1. Real estate operators and lessors (includes residential, commercial and
industrial buildings).
2. Real estate agents, brokers and management services
3. Title abstracting and escrow services
4. Real estate subdividing and developing services
5. Real estate operative builders, except storage of vehicles or materials
6. Combinations of real estate, insurance, loan and law services
7. Real estate appraiser
8. Other real estate and related services
H. Holding and investment services:
1. Holding and investment services
I. Other finance, insurance and real estate services:
1. Other finance, insurance and real estate services
J. Photographic services:
1. Photography
2. Commercial photography (includes aerial photography and map services)
K. Business services:
1. Advertising services ( includes public relations services, layout and
advertising copy preparation).
2. Consumer and mercantile reporting services
3. Collection agency, independent service on contract basis
4. Telephone answering services
5. Building management services
6. Employment agencies
7. Other business services (includes artists, agents and brokers, assaying,
authors, drafting services, inventory services, lecture bureaus, patent brokers, repossession
service, tax collection agencies).
L. Medical and other health services:
1. Physicians offices and services, including chiropractors, gynecologists,
neurologists, obstetricians and other licensed medical practitioners, but excluding medical
clinics
2. Dental offices and services
3. Dental laboratories
4. Blood banks
5. Other medical and health services, including clinics, chiropodists,
dietitians, medical photography, naturopaths, optometrists, physical therapists, podiatrists,
psychiatric clinics and home health and nursing services offices; however, hospitals and
psychiatric hospitals, as defined in Sections 18.02.340 and 18.02.345 of this code respectively,
are not included in this provision.
M. Legal services:
1. Legal services, attorneys
2. Other legal services (notary public, etc.)
N. Engineering, architectural and planning services:
1. Engineering services ( consulting and research) ( includes surveying,
marine, etc.).
2. Architectural services and building designers
3. Landscape architecture services (design only)
4. Urban and regional planning services
O. Data processing services:
1. Data processing services
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (3) ( Vista 1/8/21)
P. Professional services:
1. Accounting, auditing, bookkeeping services, income tax services, notary
public.
2. Marriage and family counseling services
3. Technical writers, report preparation
4. Microfilming services
5. Business and management consulting services, including computer
programming, designing, etc.
Q. General contract services:
1. Building contractors ( includes residential, commercial and industrial),
except storage of materials and vehicles (offices only).
R. Government services:
1. Courts
2. Any normal governmental function
S. Protective functions and related activities:
1. Police protection and related activities
2. Fire protection and related activities
3. Civil defense and related activities
4. Health services
5. Other protective functions and their related activities ( includes customs
inspection, immigration office, FBI offices).
T. Postal services:
1. Postal services
U. One stand for the display and sale of only those agricultural products produced
on the premises subject to the following conditions:
1. Such stand shall not exceed one hundred square feet in area
2. No such stand shall be located closer than twenty feet to any street lines
3. No such stand shall be located on any parcel or lot less than one-half
acre in area.
Prior Code Appendix A 1201)
Section 18.36.020 Special Uses
In an O-P zone, the following uses may be permitted upon the permit in accordance with
Chapter 18.74:
A. Welfare and charitable organizations:
1. Welfare and charitable services, private or semiprivate, with uses
includes Goodwill, Red Cross, Travelers Aid).
B. Social, fraternal and youth organizations and services:
1. Social clubs (includes alumni, bridge, etc.)
2. Fraternal associations and lodges
3. Womens clubs
4. Youth organizations (Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Boys Clubs, etc.)
5. YMCA and YWCA facilities, except lodging
C. Educational services:
1. Reserved
D. Public assembly, miscellaneous purposes:
1. Meeting halls for rent (wedding chapels, etc.)
2. Commercial coaches
3. Repealed
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (4) ( Vista 1/8/21)
E. Medical and other health facilities as listed below:
1. Hospitals, as defined in Section 18.02.340 of this code
2. Psychiatric hospitals, as defined in Section 18.02.345 of this code
F. Miscellaneous services:
1. Barbershops and beauty parlors
G. Ancillary commercial uses as listed here, subject to the following conditions:
1. Such uses must be located in a single building or building complex,
provided such building or building complex has a minimum of 20,000 square feet of gross floor
area.
2. The total gross floor area of all ancillary uses in a building complex shall
not be greater than ten percent of the entire gross floor area of the building or complex.
3. The following uses are allowed as ancillary uses, subject to Subdivisions
1 and 2 of this subsection:
a. Coffee shop, cafeteria, canteen or restaurant
b. Gift store, stationery store or boutique
c. Branch bank or savings and loan with no drive-through facility
H. Rehabilitative mental health services facility
Prior Code Appendix A 1202; Ord. No. 95-4, Amended, 03/28/95; Ord. No. 2020-14, Amended, 12/8/20)
Section 18.36.030 Minor Uses
In an O-P zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a minor use permit is
obtained in accordance with the provisions of this title:
A. Day care and boarding of children
B. Public buildings and uses
C. A church, club or lodge in the OP Zone may be approved by the Minor Use
Permit procedure if the church, club or lodge meets the following requirements:
1. It is located in an existing building
2. There is sufficient on-site parking to accommodate the use
3. It occupies no more than 60 percent of the floor area of the building, or
has a membership of a maximum of 100.
All other churches, clubs or lodges in this zone must be processed through the
Special Use Permit procedure.
Prior Code Appendix 1202.5; Ord. No. 95-4, Amended, 03/28/95)
Section 18.36.040 Building Height
In the O-P zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is less, except that buildings and structures of greater height may be erected
provided a special use permit is issued therefore in accordance with the provisions of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 1203)
Section 18.36.050 Front Yards
In an O-P zone, no building or structure shall be located and maintained less than 50
feet from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts. In cases where O-P
property fronts on major arterial or collector streets, the provisions of Chapter 18.58 would
regulate front yard setbacks.
Prior Code Appendix A 1203)
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (5) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.36.060 Side Yards
Every lot and building site in an O-P zone shall maintain a side yard of not less than ten
feet on one side and zero feet on the other; except that, in cases where the building abuts a 20-
foot-wide alley along the side property lines, no such side yards shall be required; provided,
however, that where a common property line exists with other property zones for residential use,
such building or structure shall be set back from the boundary of the residential property in an
amount equal to the side yard required in the adjacent residential zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 1205)
Section 18.36.070 Rear Yards
Every lot and building site in an O-P zone shall maintain a rear yard of not less than ten
feet extending the full width of the lot; except that, in the cases where the building site abuts a
20-foot-wide alley along the rear property line, such rear yard may be reduced to five feet or, in
cases where a rear property line is contiguous to residential zoned property, such building or
structure shall be set back from the boundary of the residential property in an amount equal to
the rear yard required in the adjacent residential zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 1206)
Section 18.36.080 Building Site Area
Every lot and building site in an O-P zone shall have a minimum area of 7,500 square
feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 1207)
Section 18.36.090 Distance Between Buildings
In an O-P zone, no building shall be closer than ten feet to any other main building on
the same lot or building site.
Prior Code Appendix A 1208)
Section 18.36.100 Accessory Buildings
No accessory building or structure shall be permitted unless first approved by the
Planning Commission after submission of complete information as to the design, location, size
and intended use of the proposed accessory building.
Prior Code Appendix A 1209)
Section 18.36.110 Enclosed Building Required
In an O-P zone, every business use shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed
building.
Prior Code Appendix A 1210)
Section 18.36.120 Lot Coverage
Buildings may cover any area not required for setbacks, and all portions of any improved
site not covered by buildings shall be paved or landscaped.
Prior Code Appendix A 1211)
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (6) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Section 18.36.130 Development Standards
In an O-P zone:
A. Landscaping Requirements.
1. Boundary landscaping shall be planted and maintained along all street
lines abutting the property except for the area required for street access. The width of the
landscaping shall be a minimum of three feet except that such landscaping may be curved at a
lesser width within six feet of any street access way. Such landscaping shall be enclosed by a
six-inch-wide concrete curbing, except where adjacent to a building; all landscape planters shall
be provided with permanent watering facilities. Landscaping shall not be more than three feet
high within 15 feet of either side of any street access way.
2. In addition, at least five percent of any parking area shall be landscaped,
reasonably distributed throughout such parking area, and such landscaping shall be provided
with permanent watering facilities.
B. Screening Requirements.
1. On any exterior boundary line which is a common property line with any
property zoned for residential use, a masonry wall six feet in height, measured from the finished
grade of the residential property, shall be provided except that any portion of such wall within 15
feet of any street line shall be no greater than three feet in height. In cases where the finished
building site elevation of adjoining residential zoned property is more than six feet above or
below that of the adjoining O-P zoned property, the required masonry wall may be reduced in
heights or waived by the planning director to the extent it is reasonably found not to serve any
useful screening purpose.
2. Refuse Collection and Storage.
a. All developments shall provide a central location(s) for the
collection and storage of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as
provided for by Section 18.58.590 of this code.
b. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste
material shall conform with the provisions of Section 18.58.590 of this code.
3. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at ground or rooftop
level, shall be contained in a completely enclosed structure. All wall air conditioner units shall be
blocked from view with material that is reasonably compatible and in harmony with the
architectural styling and detailing of the building.
C. Lighting Requirements. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas and
other facilities shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from adjoining properties.
Prior Code Appendix A 1212; Ord. No. 94-25, Amended, 10/25/94)
Section 18.36.140 Utilities
In the O-P zone:
A. 1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television
lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested or
within any half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground, except with
regard to a building permit for improvements less than 25 percent of the value of the existing
building, as to existing facilities.
2. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities,
including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
3. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct,
and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting
Vista Municipal Code
18.36 (7) ( Vista 1/8/21)
systems may be placed above ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of
the Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to
install cable television lines in the subdivision.
D. 1. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in-lieu
fee may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a
cost per-foot basis using a typical 600-foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution circuit.
2. In-lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account to be
used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
3. This subsection may be applied to building permits existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy
is granted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1213)
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (1) ( Vista 1/8/21)
Chapter 18.38
C-1 Commercial Zone
Sections:
18.38.010 Permitted Uses
18.38.020 Special Uses
18.38.030 Minor Uses
18.38.040 Prohibited Uses (Repealed 11/10/15)
18.38.050 Limitations on Use
18.38.060 Development Standards
18.38.070 Building Site Area
18.38.080 Utilities
Section 18.38.010 Permitted Uses
In a C-1 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Agricultural stand. One agricultural stand for the display and sale of only those
agricultural products produced on the premises subject to the following conditions:
1. Such stand shall not exceed 100 square feet in area.
2. No such stand shall be located closer than 20 feet to any street line.
3. No such stand shall be located on any parcel or lot less than one-half
acre in area.
B. Appliance, radio and television repair shop
C. Automobile detailing, limited to the cleaning and polishing of automobiles
passenger vehicles), but excluding automobile washing (wash only services), auto body repair
or painting, or other automotive services not permitted by the zoning district regulations.
D. Aviary
E. Bakery for the production of bakery goods which are sold only at retail and only
on the same premises where the bakery is located.
F. Bank
G. Barbershop
H. Beauty parlor
I. Bowling alley
J. Business college
K. Dancehall
L. Department store
M. Dry cleaning plants using nonflammable solvents of the chlorinated hydrocarbon
type and employing not more than ten people.
N. Fortune telling
O. Frozen food locker
P. Furniture finishing, consisting of removing old finishes from furniture, staining and
applying new finishes.
Q. Health clubs and gymnasiums
R. Job printing
S. Key making
T. Large recycling collection facilities subject to a standard or modified site
development plan pursuant to Sections 18.64.020 through 18.64.040.
U. Laundry, self-service
V. Laundry and dry cleaning agency
W. Mortuary
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (2) ( Vista 1/8/21)
X. Motor vehicle (new) sales facility, subject to the limitation set forth in this chapter
Y. Museums and libraries not operated for profit
Z. Pet shop
AA. Post office
BB. Public parking area
CC. Plumbing shop, retail
DD. Professional or business office
EE. Radio broadcasting offices and studios, exclusive of transmission or receiving
antennas or towers.
FF. Rental/leasing of motor vehicles other than in a vehicle sales lot. Only
passenger vehicles, with the exception of house cars (as defined by Sections 465 and 362,
respectively, of the Vehicle Code of the state), may be stored/parked on the site without
obtaining a Minor Use Permit.
GG. Restaurant
HH. Shoe repair, tailor or dressmaking shop, retail
II. Skating rink
JJ. Small recycling collection facilities located outdoors, subject to a minor site
development plan pursuant to Section 18.64.060.
KK. Stores for the retail sale of new goods or genuine antiques
LL. Telephone and telegraph office
MM. Theater
NN. Tool rentals
OO. Upholstering or drapery shop, retail
PP. Similar establishments, not specified as permitted uses only in the C-2 zone,
which cater directly to consumers, upon specific approval by the Planning Commission.
QQ. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
Prior Code Appendix A 1301; Ord. No. 1995-4, Amended, 03/28/95; Ord. No. 2009-3, Amended,
02/10/09; Measure Z, Added, 12/11/18)
Section 18.38.020 Special Uses
In a C-1 zone, the following uses may be permitted upon the granting of a special use
permit in accordance with Chapter 18.74:
1. Transient trailer parks on property having a minimum net area of five
acres.
2. Small animal clinics
3. Soft water service and processing
4. Tire recapping business
5. Tortilla factory
6. Car wash
7. Liquid gas, retail sales
8. Service station
9. Borrow pits and quarries for rock, sand, gravel, decomposed granite or
soil.
10. Cemeteries, upon the issuance of a permit pursuant to City ordinance
11. Columbariums and mausoleums outside a cemetery
12. Establishments or enterprises involving large assemblages of people or
automobiles such as:
a. Open-air theaters
b. Commercial sport or recreational enterprises
13. Bar or Cocktail Lounge. Bar or cocktail lounge facilities may be permitted
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (3) ( Vista 1/8/21)
subject to the specified criteria and regulations and such other conditions as may be levied as a
condition of granting a special use permit:
a. Such facilities that currently operate within the corporate limits of
the city shall be classified as nonconforming land uses upon the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this section.
b. Such facilities as may be subject to annexation subsequent to the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section shall be classified as nonconforming land
uses upon the effective date of the applicable annexation.
c. All nonconforming bars may continue to operate under
nonconforming provisions of Chapter 18.72; however, upon receipt of evidence that the
operation of any bar, or the nonconforming features of any bar (e.g., lack of parking), is causing
a nuisance to the area in which such bar is located, the City Council is authorized to hold a
hearing, with notice as prescribed in Section 18.04.060 (A). The purpose of the hearing shall be
to accept testimony for the purpose of determining whether or not the operation of the bar is
creating a public nuisance. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the City Council shall
determine whether or not a nuisance exists. If the Council determines a public nuisance does
exist, the Council shall then determine what action is necessary to abate the nuisance and to
establish a reasonable period of time for such abatement to occur.
d. No new bar or existing facility that has been inoperable ( vacant)
for a period exceeding six months shall be established or reestablished, whichever is applicable,
within 500 feet of a church, school ( public or private), youth-oriented institutional activity or
another established bar.
14. Deleted
15. Hotel
16. Motel or auto court
17. Convenience markets - repealed
18. Hospitals, as defined in Sections 18.02.340 and 18.02.345
19. Motor vehicle (used) sales facility
20. Rental/leasing of motor vehicles and trailers other than in a motor vehicle
new) sales facility where the activity is an ancillary use on a site containing another use which
is considered the primary use ( e.g., automobile service station or other retail sales or service
activity) and such use would result in an intensification of the primary use(s) on the site. Such
rentals may include commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles ( house cars) or trailers when
specified by the use permit.
21. Repealed
22. a. The sale of alcoholic beverages, which requires an Alcoholic
Beverage Control License Type No. 20 ( offsale beer and wine) and Type No. 21 ( offsale
general). It is the intent of the City Council that the regulations of this subsection shall apply to
all sales of alcoholic beverages for which Alcoholic Beverage Control License Types Nos. 20
and 21 are required in the City.
b. This subsection shall take precedence where there is any conflict
with any other zoning district regulation. This subsection is not intended to allow the sale of
alcoholic beverages where it is otherwise prohibited.
23. In order to provide maintenance supervision and security protection for
commercial and industrial structures, and not to create residential uses on commercial and
industrial zoned property for purposes unrelated to the principal use of such property, not more
than one residential facility of not more than 700 square feet in gross floor area for each lot or
building site for caretaker living purposes may be permitted if it is constructed concurrently with
or after and as an integral part of a nonresidential principal structure, and is incidental, adjunct
and subordinate to such structure; provided, that:
a. Such caretaker facility shall be provided with not less than one
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (4) ( Vista 1/8/21)
motor vehicle parking space in addition to any such spaces required for the principal structure,
which such space may be uncovered.
b. The lot or building site contains not less than two acres, and no
variance granted pursuant to Chapter 18.74 may allow such a facility on a lot or building site of
less than one acre.
c. A notice of land use restriction shall be recorded in the Office of
the County Recorder giving notice that construction and use of a caretaker facility on such
property is pursuant to a Special use permit issued by the City for a limited time, and that such
use may not be continued after termination of the Special use permit or after termination of the
use of the principal structure as provided for in the Special use permit.
d. Termination of the use of the principal structure as provided for in
the Special use permit nullifies and makes void the Special use permit and the use of the
caretaker facility for caretaker or other residential purposes.
e. The Special use permit shall be limited to a period of five years,
but is renewable for separate additional five-year periods upon a finding for each such additional
period that the principal structure and caretaker facility is being used in accordance with the
terms of the Special use permit and this subsection.
24. Drive-in facilities which are part of a building or structure and connected
to a use permitted within the zone district where situated.
25. Automobile, recreation vehicle and mobile home repair garages,
excluding body work or painting, except as incidental to other repair work.
26. Commercial coaches.
27. Recreation uses employing the use of amusement devices when either:
a. The use comprises more than five percent of the net usable floor
area of any establishment.
b. Over five electronic or pinball devices are established, over four
pool or billiard tables are established, over three other coin-operated devices maintained for the
use of five or fewer persons per machine are established, or over any nine amusement devices
using a combination of the above are established, if less than five percent of the floor area of
any enterprise is utilized.
28. Bail bond business
29. Bargain basement store
30. Check casher
31. Hiring hall and/or labor center
32. Pawn shop
33. Smoke shop
34. One emergency shelter within the entire zone, not to exceed 50 beds in
total.
35. Residential care facility for the elderly, as defined in Health and Safety
Code Section 1569.2(k)
36. Rehabilitative mental health services facility.
Prior Code Appendix A 1301; Ord. No. 1991-17, Amended, 07/09/91; Ord. No. 1995-4, Amended,
03/28/95; Ord. No. 1997-5, Amended, 03/25/97; Ord. No. 2009-3, Amended, 2/10/09; Ord. No. 2009-12,
Amended, 4/14/09; Ord. No. 2012-5, Deleted Item 14, 3/23/2012; Ord. No. 2012-11, Amended, 10/2/12;
Ord. No. 2015-4, Amended 3/10/15; Ord. No. 2020-1, Amended, 1/14/20; Ord. No. 2020-14, Amended,
12/8/20)
Section 18.38.030 Minor Uses
In a C-1 zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a Minor Use Permit is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of this title:
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (5) ( Vista 1/8/21)
A. Agricultural Stand. One stand for the display and sale of agricultural products
produced on the premises or grown elsewhere in the community subject to the following
conditions:
1. Such stand shall not exceed 100 square feet in area.
2. No such stand shall be located closer than 20 feet to any street line.
3. No such stand shall be located on any parcel less than one-half acre in
area.
4. All permitted products shall be specified in the use permit.
B. Day care and boarding of children
C. Parks
D. Public buildings and uses
E. Radio and television transmitters
F. Recreational facilities
G. A church, club or lodge in the C-1 zone may be approved by the Minor Use
Permit procedure if the church, club or lodge meets the following requirements:
1. It is located in an existing building.
2. There is sufficient on-site parking to accommodate the use.
3. It occupies no more than 60 percent of the floor area of the building, or
has a membership of a maximum of 100.
All other churches, clubs or lodges not meeting the preceding requirements in
this zone may be approved only by the special use permit procedure.
H. Schools.
I. Day spa.
J. Outdoor cooking facilities subject to the following conditions:
1. No such facilities shall be located within 300 feet of any residentially
zoned property.
2. No such facilities shall occupy parking spaces that are required to serve
the use in accordance with Chapter 18.54.
3. Any such facility shall be operated in compliance with all applicable laws,
including, without limitation, the fire code and building code requirements related thereto.
4. All necessary permits and approvals shall be obtained from the San
Diego County Department of Public Health.
5. Any and all solid waste material produced as a result of outdoor cooking
shall be properly deposited in an on-site refuse collection area in accordance with regulations
set forth in Chapter 13.16 of the Vista Municipal Code.
6. Any proposed signs associated with such facilities shall be submitted for
review as part of the minor use permit process.
Prior Code Appendix A 1301; Ord. No. 1992-16, Amended, 09/08/92; Ord. No. 1995-4, Amended,
03/28/95; Ord. No. 2009-3, Amended, 2/10/09; Ord. No. 2009-6, Amended, 2/24/96; Ord. No. 2012-12,
Amended, 10/9/12)
Section 18.38.040 Prohibited Uses
Prior Code Appendix A 1301; Ord. No. 2015-4, Amended, 3/10/15; Ord. No. 2015-20, Repealed 11/10/15)
Section 18.38.050 Limitations on Use
Notwithstanding the fact that the following uses are permitted uses in a C-1 zone
pursuant to Section 18.38.010, uses listed in this section are subject to the following conditions
and limitations:
A. Every use shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building except the
following:
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (6) ( Vista 1/8/21)
1. Motor vehicle or trailer sales display areas ( all detailing, service and
repair activities shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building)
2. Automobile service station fuel-dispensing facilities
3. Drive-in restaurant
4. Public parking area
5. Retail nursery
6. Outdoor eating facilities subject to C below
7. Similar establishments, upon specific approval by the Planning
Commission.
B. Any display area for the sale of new or used motor vehicles or trailers shall be
landscaped in accordance with the provisions of Section 18.38.030 and paved in accordance
with the provisions of Section 18.54.120 (H); and the use of features/devices to elevate vehicles
above the average grade of the site for display purposes shall be limited to the use of
landscaped earthen berms or mounds, or permanent structures designed so as to be
architecturally compatible with existing structures or buildings on the project site and/or adjacent
thereto. The use of temporary structures and/or devices for such purposes is specifically
prohibited.
C. Outdoor eating facilities are subject to the following:
1. For purposes of this section, outdoor eating facilities means any eating
facility outside an enclosed building.
2. Parking must be provided for any outdoor eating facility at the same rate
as for indoor dining. All areas used for outdoor dining shall be included in the parking
requirement.
3. Approval of the outdoor eating facility shall include approval of a
procedure for noise regulation and trash pick-up to ensure that no trash is placed outside the
restaurant and that noise levels are within applicable exterior noise limits as set forth in the
entirety of Chapter 8.32 (Noise Control) of the City Municipal Code.
4. Approval of an outdoor eating facility shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 18.64.030, unless it is part of a project requiring a special or minor use permit in which
case approval of the facility will be part of that procedure.
5. The subject outdoor eating facility shall be approved by the San Diego
County Department of Public Health.
Prior Code Appendix A 1302; Ord. No. 1992-16, Amended, 09/08/92; Ord. No. 2020-1, Amended,
01/14/20)
Section 18.38.060 Development Standards
In a C-1 zone:
A. Permitted Floor Area. The total building floor area on a lot shall not exceed the
square foot area of the lot.
B. Permitted Building Height. No building or structure shall exceed a height of two
stories or 35 feet, whichever is less; provided, however, that where any such building or
structure is constructed along or adjacent to a line bordering any property zoned for residential
or residential professional use, such building or structure shall be set back from the boundary of
the residential or residential professional property in an amount equal to the side yard required
in the adjacent residential or residential-professional zone.
C. Permitted Site Coverage. Buildings may cover any area not required by this title
for setbacks, landscaping or parking. Any area of the lot not covered by buildings shall be paved
or landscaped.
D. Yard Requirements. No building wall, as defined in the building code, shall be
closer than three and one-half feet to any street line; provided, however, that where a common
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (7) ( Vista 1/8/21)
property line exists with other property zoned for residential or residential-professional use, a
five-foot side yard setback shall be maintained for a distance of 15 feet from the street line and
no open side shall be closer than 40 feet to any such common property line.
E. Landscaping Requirements.
1. Boundary landscaping shall be planted and maintained along all street
lines abutting the property except for the area required for street access. The width of the
landscaping shall be a minimum of three feet except that such landscaping may be curved at a
lesser width within six feet of any street accessway. Such landscaping shall be enclosed by a
six-inch-wide concrete curbing, except where adjacent to a building, and provided with
permanent watering facilities. Landscaping shall not be more than three feet high within 15 feet
of either side of any street accessway.
2. In addition, at least five percent of any parking area shall be landscaped,
reasonably distributed throughout such parking areas, and shall be provided with permanent
watering facilities.
F. Screening Requirements.
1. On any exterior boundary line which is a common property line with any
property zoned for residential use, a masonry wall six feet in height, measured from the finished
grade of the residential property, shall be provided except that any portion of such wall within 15
feet of any street line shall be no greater than three feet in height. In cases where the finished
building site elevation of adjoining residential zoned property is more than six feet above or
below that of the adjoining C-1 zoned property, the required masonry wall may be reduced in
height or waived by the Planning Director to the extent it is reasonably found not to serve any
useful screening purpose.
2. Refuse Collection and Storage.
a. All developments shall provide a central location(s) for the
collection and storage of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as
provided for by Section 18.58.590 of this code.
b. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste
material shall conform with the provisions of Section 18.58.590 of this code.
3. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at ground or rooftop
level, shall be contained in a completely enclosed structure. All wall air conditioner units shall be
blocked from view with material that is reasonably compatible and in harmony with the
architectural styling and detailing of the building.
G. Lighting. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas and other facilities
shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from adjoining properties.
Prior Code Appendix A 1303; Ord. No. 1994-25, Amended, 10/25/94; Ord. No. 2017-17, Amended,
10/24/17)
Section 18.38.070 Building Site Area
In a C-1 zone, there is no minimum area requirement for lots or building sites.
Prior Code Appendix A 1304)
Section 18.38.080 Utilities
In the C-1 zone:
A. 1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television
lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested or
within any half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground, except with
regard to a building permit for improvements less than 25 percent of the value of the existing
building, as to existing facilities.
2. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
Vista Municipal Code
18.38 (8) ( Vista 1/8/21)
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities,
including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
3. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct,
and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting
systems may be placed above ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of
the Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to
install cable television lines in the subdivision.
D. 1. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in-lieu
fee may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a
cost-per-foot basis using a typical 600 foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution circuit.
2. In-lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account to be
used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
3. This subsection may be applied to building permits existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy
is granted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1305)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.40
C- 2 Commercial Zone
Sections:
18. 40.00A Article I. General Regulations
18. 40. 010 Permitted Uses
18. 40. 020 Special Uses
18. 40. 030 Enclosed Building Required - Exceptions
18. 40. 040 Minor Uses
18. 40. 050 Prohibited Uses ( Repealed 11/ 10/ 15)
18. 40. 060 Development Standards
18. 40. 070 Building Site Area
18. 40. 080 Utilities
18. 40. 085 Emergency Shelters
18. 40.089A Article II. Adult Entertainment Establishments
18. 40. 090 Purpose of Provisions
18. 40. 100 Definitions
18. 40. 110 Establishments Permitted When
18. 40. 120 Findings
18. 40. 130 Conformance Required - Abatement When
18. 40. 140 Suspension and Revocation of Permit
Section 18. 40.00A Article I. General Regulations
Section 18. 40.010 Permitted Uses
In a C- 2 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. All uses permitted by Section 18. 38. 010 are subject to the same conditions and
restrictions applicable to the uses permitted by such section.
B. The following additional uses:
1. Automobile, recreation vehicle and mobile home repair garages, excluding
body work or painting, except as incidental to other repair work.
2. Bakery
3. Cabinet shop
4. Carpenter shop, those involving the assembly and repair of wooden
structures or their structural parts, provided all activities are conducted entirely within an enclosed
building.
5. Ceramic kiln not exceeding eight cubic feet
6. Dry cleaning plant
7. Egg noodle factory
8. Ice cream manufacturing
9. Kennel or small animal clinic
10. Laundry
11. Light manufacturing using electric power not in excess of ten horsepower
12. Newspaper printing
13. Service and reconditioning of diesel engines including trucks being
serviced.
14. Single- room occupancy (SRO) hotel
15. Storage warehouse for the storage of commercial goods only and
excluding therefrom the storage of automobiles, the noncommercial storage of personal effects,
motor vehicles, recreational vehicles and similar items.
18. 40 ( l) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
16. Taxidermist
17. Technical and scientific laboratory
18. Tire recapping, incidental to retail sales, provided all recapping operation,
except temporary storage of tires, be conducted entirely within a building, and not less than 50
percent of such building be used for retail sale of merchandise.
19. Tool and equipment rental, limited to tools and equipment used by
individuals for their own convenience, but not including tools or equipment ordinarily and
commonly used by contractors for commercial and/ or industrial purposes.
20. Tortilla factory
21. Wholesale business
22. Similar establishments, excluding the aboveground storage of petroleum
and its products, upon specific approval by the Planning Commission.
23. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
Prior Code Appendix 1401; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 2008- 10, Amended, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord.
No. 2012- 5, Added Item 14 and renumbered, 3/ 27/ 12; Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 40.020 Special Uses
The following uses may be permitted upon the issuance of a special use permit. In
addition to the uses listed below, all uses permitted by special use permit in the C- 1 zone are
permitted by Special use permit in the C- 2 zone unless the use is permitted by right in Section
18. 40. 010. B.
A. Concrete batch plants, provided the capacity of the plant is no greater than two
cubic yards, the use is conducted as a use incidental to an equipment rental yard or similar use,
and it does not create a noise level greater than 70 dba as measured at any lot line of the lot on
which the use is located.
B. Massage businesses, subject to conditions which may include, but need not be
limited to, the following:
1. All such businesses shall be closed between the hours of ten p. m. and
seven a. m. inclusive.
2. The lot or building site of any such use shall be located no less than 2, 000
linear feet from a lot or building site upon which any other such use is being conducted, and may
not abut any lot or building site situated in any residential zone.
3. No food or alcoholic beverages may be sold or served on the portion of the
premises exclusively devoted to the conduct of the massage business.
4. Any special use permit granted for such a use shall automatically expire
one year after the date of adoption of the resolution approving the use. The special use permit
may be extended for subsequent one- year periods by the Planning Commission or on appeal by
the City Council, upon a showing of past compliance with conditions thereof.
5. Violation of any of these conditions shall void the special use permit.
C. Automobile storage, storage garages for the noncommercial storage of personal
effects, motor vehicles, recreation vehicles and similar items.
D. The following outdoor storage uses, subject to conditions which may include that
they are screened by walls or solid fences not less than six feet high:
1. Building material or construction equipment yard
2. Feed and grain store
3. Lumberyard
4. Recreational vehicle storage, including boats, off-road vehicles ( ORVs),
campers, travel trailers, motor homes ( house cars), and similar vehicles, but excluding mobile
homes.
5. Storage of commercial vehicles
6. Top soil sale, excluding production, provided stock is kept sufficiently moist
18. 40 ( 2) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
to eliminate dust.
E. Tattoo parlors subject to the following limitations:
1. No tattoo parlor shall be located within 500 feet of any public or private
school, park or playground, and child care or pre- school facility, as defined in Chapter 18. 84 of
this code. The measurement shall be taken from the nearest wall of the building within which the
tattoo parlor is established to the nearest property line of the identified land use.
2. No tattoo parlor shall be located within 1, 000 feet of any other tattoo parlor,
as measured from the nearest walls of the buildings within which the tattoo parlors are
established.
3. The number of tattoo parlors shall not exceed one such establishment for
every 40, 000 persons residing within the city.
F. Health facility, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1250, excluding
correctional treatment center.
Prior Code Appendix 1401; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 2008- 10, Amended, 4/ 8/ 08; Ord.
No. 2009- 3, Amended, 2/ 10/ 09; Ord. No. 2009- 12, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09; Ord. No. 2012- 3, Amended 2/ 28/ 12)
Section 18.40.030 Enclosed Building Required - Exceptions
In a C- 2 zone, every business use shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building,
except as modified by resolution of the Planning Commission or by the provisions of Section
18. 40. 010. C, except the following:
A. Drive- in restaurant
B. Public parking area
C. Retail nursery
D. Service station
E. Automobile and trailer sales
Prior Code Appendix 1401)
Section 18. 40.040 Minor Uses
In a C- 2 zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a minor use permit is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of this title:
A. Day care and boarding of children
B. Parks
C. Public buildings and uses
D. Radio and television transmitters
E. Recreational facilities
F. Repealed
G. Schools
Prior Code Appendix 1401; Ord. No. 92- 16, Amended, 09/ 08/ 92)
Section 18. 40.050 Prohibited Uses
Prior Code Appendix 1401; Ord. No. 2015- 20, Repealed 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 18. 40.060 Development Standards
In a C- 2 zone:
A. Permitted Floor Area. The total building floor area on a lot shall not exceed four
times the square foot area of the lot.
B. Permitted Building Height. No building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35
feet in height, whichever is less; provided, that if any such building or structure is constructed
along or adjacent to a line bordering any property zoned for residential use, such building or
18. 40 ( 3) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
structure shall be set back from the boundary of the residentially zoned property in an amount
equal to the side yard required in such adjacent zone and; provided further, however, that
buildings and structures of greater height may be erected if a special use permit is issued
therefore in accordance with the provisions of this title.
C. Permitted Site Coverage. Buildings may cover any area not required by this title
for setbacks, landscaping or parking. Any area of the lot not covered by buildings shall be paved
or landscaped.
D. Yard Requirements. No building wall, as defined in the building code, shall be
closer than three and one- half feet to any street line; provided, however, that where a common
property line exists with property zoned for residential or residential- professional use, a five-foot
side yard setback shall be maintained for a distance of 15 feet from the street line and no open
side shall be closer than 40 feet to any such common property line.
E. Landscaping Requirements.
1. Boundary landscaping shall be planted and maintained along all street lines
abutting the property except for the area required for street access. The width of the landscaping
shall be a minimum of three feet except that such landscaping may be curved at a lesser width
within six feet of any street accessway. Such landscaping shall be enclosed by a six inch wide
concrete curbing, except where adjacent to a building, and provided with permanent watering
facilities. Landscaping shall not be more than three feet high within 15 feet of either side of any
street accessway.
2. In addition, at least five percent of any parking area shall be landscaped,
reasonably distributed throughout such parking area, and shall be provided with permanent
watering facilities.
F. Screening Requirements.
1. On any exterior boundary line which is a common property line with any
property zoned for residential use, a masonry wall six feet in height, measured from the finished
grade of the residential property, shall be provided, except that any portion of such wall within 15
feet of any street line shall be no greater than three feet in height. In cases where the finished
building site elevation of adjoining residential zoned property is more than six feet above or below
that of the adjoining C- 2 zoned property, the required masonry wall may be reduced in height or
waived by the Planning Director to the extent it is reasonably found not to serve any useful
screening purpose.
2. Refuse Collection and Storage.
a. All developments shall provide a central location( s) for the collection
and storage of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as provided
for by Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
b. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste
material shall conform with the provisions of Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
3. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at ground or rooftop
level, shall be contained in a completely enclosed structure. All wall air conditioner units shall be
blocked from view with material that is reasonably compatible and in harmony with the
architectural styling and detailing of the building.
G. Lighting. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas and other facilities
shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from adjoining properties.
Prior Code Appendix 1402; Ord. No. 94- 25, Amended, 10/ 25/ 94)
Section 18.40.070 Building Site Area
In a C- 2 zone, there is no minimum area requirement for lots or building sites.
Prior Code Appendix 1403)
18. 40 ( 4) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 40.080 Utilities
A. 1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television
lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested or within
any half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground, except with regard
to a building permit for improvements less than 25 percent of the value of the existing building, as
to existing facilities.
2. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities, including
licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
3. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct,
and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting
systems may be placed above ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of the
Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to install
cable television lines in the subdivision.
D. 1. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in- lieu fee
may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a cost
per foot basis using a typical 600 foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution circuit.
2. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account to be
used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
3. This subsection may be applied to building permits existing on the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy is granted.
Prior Code Appendix 1404)
18. 40. 85 Emergency Shelters
A. Unless the conditions described in paragraph B exist, an emergency shelter must
secure an approved Special Use Permit before commencing operation. Application for the
Special Use Permit and its review shall be governed by Chapter 18. 74 of the Development Code.
B. The requirement for an SUP described in paragraph A shall not apply if the
emergency shelter beds within the City ( as determined under Government Code Section
65583(a)) fall short of the number of emergency shelter beds required by Government Code
section 65583(a)( 7). The determination required by this paragraph shall occur on the date the
operator submits the materials required by paragraph D.
C. Regardless of whether a Special Use Permit is required under paragraph A, an
emergency shelter shall not open or operate unless it has demonstrated compliance with the
following requirements:
1. The maximum number of homeless persons that may be served by the
emergency shelter shall be 50.
2. Off-street parking shall be provided as follows: 1 per 3 beds.
3. Interior waiting and intake area shall be located near the main entry area
and sized to accommodate and seat at least 20 persons while they wait for assistance, or onehalf
of the number of beds provided, if less.
4. Professional and on- site management, with experience managing
emergency shelters, shall be provided at all times.
18. 40 ( 5) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
5. The emergency shelter shall be no closer than 300 feet from any other
existing or approved emergency shelter.
6. The lighting for the emergency shelter shall satisfy the minimum standards
that would be required of a multi- family residential project, such as illumination of exit paths that
lead to a public right- of-way.
7. When in operation, the emergency shelter shall provide security in
accordance with an on- site management plan created and adopted by the agency operating the
shelter.
D. The proposed shelter operator shall demonstrate compliance with the
requirements in the preceding paragraph by providing the Zoning Administrator with a shelter
plan. The shelter plan shall consist of a written description of the characteristics of the planned
shelter along with preliminary plans for the existing or proposed shelter facility, including parking.
The submission shall include sufficient detail for the Zoning Administrator to accurately assess
whether the proposed shelter will satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph C. Within 30
days of receiving a complete application, the Zoning Administrator shall inform the proposed
operator whether the submission satisfies paragraph C. The review shall be ministerial and any
approval shall not include conditions. If the Zoning Administrator determines the proposed
emergency shelter fails to satisfy the requirements of paragraph C, the proposed operator shall
be informed in writing of the conclusion, the reasons for the conclusion, and the facts on which
the conclusion was based.
E. Any emergency shelter must operate in accordance with the terms of the shelter
plan approved by the Zoning Administrator, this Code, and the approved Special Use Permit, if
applicable.
F. Nothing in this Section, nor approval of any Special Use Permit or shelter plan,
shall relieve a proposed operator from the obligation to satisfy all applicable building, zoning,
environmental and other laws, regulations or ordinances that may otherwise apply to the
construction, location, or operation of the emergency shelter.
Ord. No. 2012- 5, Added, 3/ 27/ 12)
Section 18. 40.089A Article II. Adult Entertainment Establishments
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40.090 Purpose of Provisions
Prior Code Appendix 1420; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40. 100 Definitions
Prior Code Appendix 1421; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40. 110 Establishments Permitted When
Prior Code Appendix 1421. 1; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40. 120 Findings
Prior Code Appendix 1422; Ord No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40. 130 Conformance Required - Abatement When
Prior Code Appendix 1423; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 40. 140 Suspension and Revocation of Permit
18. 40 ( 6) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Prior Code Appendix 1424; Ord. No. 2001- 12, Repealed, 07/ 10/ 01)
18. 40 ( 7) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.42
C- 3 Commercial Zone
Sections:
18. 42. 010 Permitted Uses
18. 42. 020 Special Uses
18. 42. 030 Minor Uses
18. 42. 040 Prohibited Uses ( Repealed 11/ 10/ 15)
18. 42. 050 Development Standards
18. 42. 060 Building Site Area
18. 42. 070 Limitations on Use
18. 42. 080 Utilities
Section 18. 42.010 Permitted Uses
In a C- 3 zone the following uses are permitted:
A. All uses permitted by subsection A and B of Section 18. 40. 010, subject to the same
conditions and restrictions applicable to the uses permitted by such subsection, unless the use is
specified elsewhere in Section 18. 42. 020, 030 as requiring a minor or special use permit.
B. The following additional uses, when conducted in conformity with the limitations
specified in Section 18. 42. 070:
1. The manufacturing, assembling, compounding or treating of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone, canvas, cloth, felt, fur, glass,
leather (except machine belting), paper, plastics, shell, textiles and yam.
2. Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and devices, and
radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only, such as coils, condensers,
transformers, crystal holders, and the like.
3. Ceramic products manufacturing; provided, that the total capacity of all
kilns in any one establishment may not exceed eight cubic feet and that there shall be no
pulverizing of clay.
4. Scientific instrument and equipment manufacturing or precision machine
shop.
5. Addressograph service
6. Body work preparation and painting of automobiles, recreational vehicles
and mobile homes.
7. Book bindery
8. Box lunch preparation or catering establishment with less than five
catering vehicles.
9. Candy, confectionery or ice cream manufacturing
10. Cosmetics, toiletries ( except soap) or perfume manufacturing or blending
11. Jewelry manufacturing, including manufacturing of products from precious
or semiprecious stones or metals.
12. Laboratories, experimental, film, motion picture, research and testing
13. Motion picture reconstruction or motion picture studio ( no outdoor sets)
14. Optical goods manufacturing
15. Packaging business
16. Storage building or warehouse
17. Similar establishments upon specific approval by the Planning
Commission.
18. 42 ( l) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
18. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
Uses customarily incident to the above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on
the same lot.
Prior Code Appendix A 1451; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93; Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 42.020 Special Uses
All those uses permitted by special use permit in the C- 1 or C- 2 zones are permitted by
special use permit in the C- 3 zone, subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth in Sections
18. 38. 050 and 18. 38. 060. If a use is permitted by Section 18. 42. 010 A or B, a special use permit
is not required.
Prior Code Appendix A 1451; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93)
Section 18. 42.030 Minor Uses
In a C- 3 zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a minor use permit is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of this title:
A. Day care and boarding of children
B. Parks
C. Public buildings and uses
D. Radio and television transmitters
E. Recreational facilities
F. Large and small recycling processing facilities
G. Rental/ leasing of motor vehicles and trailers other than in a vehicle sales lot where
the activity is an ancillary ( secondary) use on a site containing another use which is considered
the primary use ( e. g., automobile service station or other retail sales or service activity) and such
use would result in an intensification of the primary use( s) on the site. Such rentals may include
commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles ( house cars), or trailers when specified by the use
permit.
H. Repealed
I. Schools
Prior Code Appendix A 1451; Ord. No. 92- 16, Amended, 09/ 08/ 92)
Section 18.42.040 Prohibited Uses
Prior Code Appendix A 1451; Ord. 2015- 20, Repealed 11/ 10/ 15)
Section 18. 42.050 Development Standards
In a C- 3 zone:
A. Permitted Floor Area. The total building floor area on a lot shall not exceed two
times the square foot area of the lot.
B. Permitted Building Height. No building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35
feet in height, whichever is less; provided, that if any such building or structure is constructed
along or adjacent to a line bordering any property zoned for residential use, such building or
structure shall be set back from the boundary of the residentially zoned property in an amount
equal to the side yard required in such adjacent zone and; provided further, however, that
buildings and structures of greater height may be erected if a special use permit is issued
therefore in accordance with the provisions of this title.
C. Permitted Site Coverage. Buildings may cover any area not required by this title
for setbacks, landscaping, or parking. Any area of the lot not covered by buildings shall be paved
or landscaped.
D. Yard Requirements. No building wall, as defined in the building code, shall be
18. 42 ( 2) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
closer than three and one- half feet to any street line; provided, however, that property zoned for
residential or residential- professional use, a five-foot side yard setback shall be maintained for a
distance of 15 feet from the street line and no open side shall be closer than 40 feet to any such
common property line.
E. Landscaping Requirements.
1. Boundary landscaping shall be planted and maintained along all street lines
abutting the property except for the area required for street access. The width of the landscaping
shall be a minimum of three feet except that such landscaping may be curved at a lesser width
within six feet of any street accessway. Such landscaping shall be enclosed by a six- inch- wide
concrete curbing, except where adjacent to a building, and provided with permanent watering
facilities. Landscaping shall not be more than three feet high within 15 feet of either side of any
street accessway.
2. In addition, at least five percent of any parking area shall be landscaped,
reasonably distributed throughout such parking area, and shall be provided with permanent
watering facilities.
F. Screening Requirements.
1. On any exterior boundary line which is a common property line with any
property zoned for residential use, a masonry wall six feet in height, measured from the finished
grade of the residential property, shall be provided, except that any portion of such wall within 15
feet of any street line shall be no greater than three feet in height. In cases where the finished
building site elevation of adjoining residential zoned property is more than six feet above or below
that of the adjoining C- 3 zoned property, the required masonry wall may be reduced in height or
waived by the Planning Director to the extent it is reasonably found not to serve any useful
screening purpose.
2. Refuse Collection and Storage.
a. All developments shall provide a central location( s) for the collection
and storage of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as provided
for by Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
b. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste
material shall conform with the provisions of Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
3. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at ground or rooftop
level, shall be contained in a completely enclosed structure. All wall air conditioner units shall be
blocked from view with material that is reasonably compatible and in harmony with the
architectural styling and detailing of the building.
G. Lighting. All lighting of buildings, landscaping, parking areas and other facilities
shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from adjoining properties.
Prior Code Appendix A 1452; Ord. No. 94- 25, Amended, 10/ 25/ 94)
Section 18.42.060 Building Site Area
In a C- 3 zone, there is no minimum area requirement for lots or building sites.
Prior Code Appendix A 1452)
Section 18.42.070 Limitations on Use
The following limitations shall apply to operations in the C- 3 zone:
A. All activities other than incidental storage shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building;
B. All buildings shall be so constructed, all machinery and equipment shall be so
installed and maintained, and all activities shall be so conducted that all noise, vibration, dust,
odor and other deleterious factors shall be confined and reduced to the extent that no annoyance
or injury will result to persons residing the vicinity of the use. ( Prior Code Appendix A 1454)
18. 42 ( 3) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 42.080 Utilities
A. 1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television
lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested or within
any half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground, except with regard
to a building permit for improvements of less than 25 percent of the value of the existing building,
as to existing facilities.
2. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities, including
licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
3. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct,
and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting
systems may be placed above ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34, 500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of the
director of planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to install
cable television lines in the subdivision.
D. 1. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in- lieu fee
may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a costper-
foot basis using a typical 600- foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution
circuit.
2. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding account to be
used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
3. This subsection may be applied to building permits existing on the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this section at anytime before certificate of occupancy is granted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1455)
18. 42 ( 4) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.44
M- 1 Light Manufacturing Zone
Sections:
18. 44.010 Permitted Uses
18. 44.020 Special Uses
18. 44.030 Minor Uses
18. 44.040 Building Height
18. 44.050 Front Yards
18. 44.060 Side Yards
18. 44.070 Rear Yards
18. 44.080 Building Site Area
18. 44.090 Limitations on Permitted Uses
18. 44. 110 Refuse Collection and Storage
Section 18. 44.010 Permitted Uses
In an M- 1 zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. All uses permitted by subsections A and B of Section 18. 42. 010, subject to the
same conditions and restrictions applicable to the uses permitted by such subsections.
B. The following additional uses:
1. Bakery
2. Blacksmith shop
3. Bottling works
4. Box lunch preparation or catering establishment with less than five
catering vehicles.
5. Food processing
6. Large and small recycling collection facilities, subject to site development
plan pursuant to Sections 18. 64. 020 through 18. 64.040
7. Large and small recycling facilities, subject to a site development plan
pursuant to Sections 18. 64. 020 through 18. 64. 040
8. Manufacture of:
a. Athletic equipment and sporting goods
b. Beverages ( nonalcoholic)
C. Containers, not over ten cubic feet in capacity
d. Electrical or electronic appliances, equipment and supplies
e. Household equipment
f. Laboratory and scientific instruments and supplies
g. Musical instruments
h. Office supplies
i. Optical instruments
j. Photographic equipment and supplies
k. Plastic products
I. Pottery
M. Surgical, medical and dental instruments and supplies
n. Textile goods
o. Tools, hand
P. Toys
q. Upholstery
18. 44 ( l) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
r. Wall board
S. Wallpaper
t. Watches, clocks and jewelry
9. Moving and warehouse storage
10. Paint shop
11. Printing and publishing
12. Research laboratories
13. Sand and gravel storage
14. Sheet metal shop
15. Soft water service and processing
16. Tinsmith shop
17. Welding shop
18. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
C. Any other industrial type use upon the issuance of a special use permit, except
for the following uses, which are prohibited:
1. Abattoir
2. Blast furnaces or smelting of ores
3. Boiler shops
4. Coke ovens
5. Crematoriums
6. Distillation of bones
7. Fat rendering
8. Incineration, reduction or dumping of offal, garbage or refuse on a
commercial basis.
9. Junkyard and/ or salvage yard
10. Lime kilns
11. Manufacture of:
a. Explosives
b. Lime or products
C. Poison
d. Rubber
e. Sulphuric acid
12. Radium extraction
13. Rolling mill
14. Rubber reclaiming
15. Smelting using other than electric energy
16. Stockyard or slaughterhouse
17. Storage or baling of bottles, junk, old iron, rags, rubber or scrap paper
18. Tanneries
19. Wood or bone distillation.
Prior Code Appendix A 1501; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93; Ord. No. 97- 5, Amended, 03/ 25/ 97;
Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 44.020 Special Uses
In addition to those uses permitted by special use permit by Section 18. 44.010 ( C), all
uses permitted by special use permit in the C- 1, C- 2 and C- 3 zones are permitted by special
use permit in the M- 1 zone, subject to the same conditions and restrictions. If a use is permitted
by Sections 18. 44. 010 A or B, a special use permit is not required. In addition, the following land
uses may be permitted by special use permit in the M- 1 zone:
A. Airports
18. 44 ( 2) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Asphalt paving plants
C. Passenger and freight stations for rail and bus travel
D. Rock crushing plants or processing of decomposed granite, soil, rock, sand or
gravel.
E. Shooting ranges, including pistol, rifle, trap and skeet ranges, provided these
uses are within an entirely enclosed building which may not be penetrated by any projectile or
explosion caused by the use.
F. Bottling, processing and distribution of water produced on the premises
G. Mining, including drilling for and the production of oil and gas
H. Concrete products manufacturing
I. Salvage and recycling of inoperable automobiles subject to screening conditions
to prevent, insofar as reasonably possible, the operation from being visible by the public at large
or by any resident of adjacent residential development.
J. Auction houses
K. Box lunch preparation or catering establishment with five or more catering
vehicles.
Prior Code Appendix A 1501; Ord. No. 93- 7, Amended, 03/ 23/ 93)
Section 18. 44.030 Minor Uses
In an M- 1 zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a minor use permit is
obtained in accordance with the provisions of this title:
A. Day care and boarding of children
B. Parks
C. Public buildings and uses
D. Radio and television transmitters
E. Recreational facilities
F. Rental/ leasing of motor vehicles and trailers other than in a vehicle sales lot
where the activity is an ancillary ( secondary) use on a site containing another use which is
considered the primary use ( e. g., automobile service station or other retail sales or service
activity) and such use would result in an intensification of the primary use( s) on the site. Such
rentals may include commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles ( house cars), or trailers when
specified by the use permit.
G. Repealed
H. Schools
Prior Code Appendix A 1501; Ord. No. 92- 16, Amended, 09/ 08/ 92)
Section 18.44.040 Building Height
In the M- 1 zone, no building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height,
whichever is less, except that buildings and structures of greater height may be erected,
provided a special use permit is issued therefore in accordance with the provisions of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 1502)
Section 18. 44.050 Front Yards
In an M- 1 zone, no building or structure shall be erected or maintained less than 50 feet
from the centerline of the street upon which the building site fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 1504)
18. 44 ( 3) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 44.060 Side Yards
In an M- 1 zone, no side yards is required, except that every lot and building site shall
have a side yard not less than five feet in width along any side lot line which abuts property in
any residential zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 1504)
Section 18. 44.070 Rear Yards
In an M- 1 zone, every lot and building site shall have a rear yard of not less than 15 feet
in depth, except that one- half of the width of an alley abutting the rear yard may be included as
a rear yard for the purpose of computing the 15- foot rear yard requirement.
Prior Code Appendix A 1505)
Section 18.44.080 Building Site Area
In an M- 1 zone, there is no minimum area requirement for lots or building sites.
Prior code Appendix A 1506)
Section 18. 44.090 Limitations on Permitted Uses
Except for the uses specified in Section 18. 38. 050 ( A), every use permitted in an M- 1
zone shall be subject to the following conditions and limitations:
A. All operations shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building;
B. A planting strip at least ten feet wide shall be provided along each abutting street,
public space or property in any residential zone, except for necessary ways of ingress and
egress.
Prior Code Appendix A 1507)
Section 18. 44. 100 Utilities
In the M- 1 zone:
A. 1. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable television lines,
within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is requested or within
and half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground, except with regard
to a building permit for improvements of less than 25 percent of the value of the existing
building, as to existing facilities.
2. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving utilities,
including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
3. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals, concealed duct,
and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and street lighting
systems may be placed above ground.
B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the installation and maintenance
of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance and trunk
communications facilities.
C. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the opinion of
the Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing and able to
install cable television lines in the subdivision.
18. 44 (4) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
D. 1. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an in- lieu
fee may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established on a
cost per-foot basis using a typical 600-foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution circuit.
2. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding, account to be
used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
3. This subsection may be applied to building permits existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy
is granted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1508)
Section 18. 44. 110 Refuse Collection and Storage
A. All developments shall provide a central location ( s) for the collection and storage
of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as provided for by
Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
B. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste material shall
conform with the provisions of Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
Ord. No. 94- 25, Enacted, 10/ 25/ 94)
18. 44 ( 5) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.46
IP Industrial Park Zone
Sections:
18.46.010 Purpose of Provisions
18.46.020 Permitted Uses
18.46.030 Prohibited Uses in IP Zone
18.46.040 Minor Uses
18.46.050 Enclosed Buildings Required - Exceptions
18.46.060 Development Standards
18.46.070 Performance Standards
Section 18. 46.010 Purpose of Provisions
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to encourage harmonious industrial
development in the city. The regulations for this industrial park zone are intended to provide
compatible industrial uses. Because of the predominantly residential nature and the limited
number of potential industrial sites in the city, this chapter is intended to provide for harmonious
industrial development between industrial park land activities and residential development. Any
industrial activity may operate in the IP zone, provided it conforms to the development and
performance standards set forth in this chapter. These standards are intended to ensure that
industrial activities which locate in this industrial park zone are compatible with the surrounding
environment.
Prior Code Appendix A 1551)
Section 18. 46.020 Permitted Uses
In an IP zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Primary Activities. The following activities are permitted subject to the
development and performance standards set forth in this chapter:
1. Manufacturing and industrial activities
2. Scientific and research activities, including laboratories and other
research facilities.
3. Administrative activities. These activities are limited to regional home
offices of businesses, industries and public utilities.
4. General wholesale activity and warehousing of processed or semiprocessed
products.
5. Medical Cannabis Dispensary
B. Secondary Activities. The following secondary activities which support or are
adjunct to the primary activities are permitted subject to the development and performance
standards and conditions set forth in this chapter:
1. Within the industrial park area, day care centers, coffee shops,
restaurants and automobile service stations are permitted, subject to the granting of a special
use permit.
2. Storage activities. Warehouses and covered and enclosed storage
facilities are permitted as part of a primary activity. Outdoor storage areas and facilities are
permitted subject to Planning Commission approval. Such outdoor storage shall be limited to
interior rear yards and enclosed by a six-foot solid masonry wall, unless substitute material is
approved under Section 18. 46.080, and in no case shall materials be stacked or stored so as to
18. 46 ( l) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
exceed the height of the masonry wall.
3. Ancillary retail activities as part of a primary activity.
C. A church, club or lodge in the I- P zone may be approved by the minor use permit
procedure if the church, club or lodge meets the following requirements:
1. It is located in an existing building
2. There is sufficient on- site parking to accommodate the use
3. It occupies no more than 60 percent of the floor area of the building, or
has a membership of a maximum of 100.
All other churches, clubs or lodges not meeting the preceding requirements in this zone
may be approved only by the special use permit procedure.
Prior Code Appendix A 1552; Ord. No. 95- 4, Amended, 03/ 28/ 95; Measure Z, Added, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 46.030 Prohibited Uses in IP Zone
The following use is prohibited in the IP zone: Crematoriums
Prior Code Appendix A 1552; Ord. No. 95- 4, Repealed, 03/ 28/ 95; Ord. No. 97- 5, Enacted, 03/ 25/ 97)
Section 18. 46.040 Minor Uses
In an IP zone, the following uses are permitted, provided a minor use permit is obtained
in accordance with the provisions of this title:
A. Parks
B. Public buildings and uses
Prior Code Appendix A 1552)
Section 18. 46.050 Enclosed Buildings Required - Exceptions
All uses in the industrial park shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building,
except for the following:
A. Off-street parking
B. Trash collections
C. Loading and unloading areas
D. Signs
E. Driveways
F. Walkways
G. Landscaping
H. Approved open storage
Prior Code Appendix A 1553)
Section 18. 46.060 Development Standards
In an IP zone, all projects shall conform to the following development standards:
A. Minimum Lot Size. Each building site in the industrial park zone shall have a
minimum lot area of one- half acre and a minimum street width ( frontage) of 150 feet, except
street frontages on a cul- de-sac, which shall be 100 feet in width. Minimum lot depth shall be
150 feet. Smaller lots existing prior to the adoption of this chapter are permitted to develop in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter. Industrial condominiums containing smaller than
minimum sized lots are permitted subject to subdivision procedures.
B. Building Setbacks. No building, structure, parking or loading areas, except
screening walls, landscaping, drives or monument signs, shall be constructed or maintained in
following setbacks:
18. 46 ( 2) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Front yard setbacks shall be 20 feet from the front property line or ten feet
with a three-foot- high landscaped earth berm.
2. Side yard setbacks shall not be required except:
a. When the industrial park parcel or building site side yard abuts a
public street, the side yard setback shall be 20 feet from the side property line or ten feet with a
three-foot- high landscaped earth berm.
b. When the industrial park parcel side yard abuts any parcel zoned
for residential use, the side yard setback from the residential zone shall be 20 feet for lots with
industrial buildings of 10, 000 square feet or less. For buildings over 10, 000 square feet, the side
yard setback from such residential zones shall be increased five feet for every 10, 000 square
feet of building area over 10, 000 square feet. The width of a railroad right- of-way or flood control
channel may be credited against 50 percent of this requirement provided a minimum of 15 feet
is maintained.
3. Rear yard setbacks shall be 15 feet from the property line, except for
parcels abutting residential zones, where the rear yard setback shall be thirty feet from the
property line and increase five feet for every 10, 000 square feet of building over 10, 000 square
feet. The width of a railroad right- of-way or flood control channel may be credited against 50
percent of this requirement provided a minimum of 15 feet is maintained.
C. Building Height. Height of buildings on parcels or building sites abutting a
nonindustrial zone are subject to the building height standards of that zone. Additional height or
stories may be permitted subject to the granting of a special use permit.
D. Building Coverage. The total area of all buildings, driveways, parking and loading
areas shall not cover more than 80 percent of the area of a building site exclusive of public rightof-
way. The remaining 20 percent shall be landscaped. Required setbacks and interior required
landscaping may be included in calculating this landscaped area.
E. Minimum Distance Between Buildings. There shall be a minimum distance of 15
feet between separated buildings located on the same building site.
F. Multiple-Occupancy Buildings. Multiple occupancy of buildings with uses
requiring different parking regulations is permitted; however, parking and loading requirements
shall be calculated for each use in accordance with Chapter 18. 54. The parking area may be
shared in common.
G. Required Screening. Provisions for screening of the parking and loading areas
are set forth in Chapter 18. 54 and shall apply for parking and loading areas.
H. Off-Street Parking and Loading. All provisions of Chapter 18. 54 shall apply.
I. Signs. All signs shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission prior to approval
of the site development plan by the Director of Planning. All signs shall be approved as part of a
comprehensive sign package and shall be architecturally compatible with the industrial building
when approved changes to the sign copy may be authorized by the Director of Planning.
1. Primary Identification. No more than two signs identifying the name and
address of the occupant or product shall be permitted. Such wall signs shall conform to the
following:
a. One 60- square-foot wall sign shall be permitted. Such wall sign
shall not project more than 12 inches from the building wall or structure and shall not extend
above the top of the parapet wall or roof line.
b. One monument sign shall be permitted in the front yard or side
yard abutting a public street. Such sign shall maintain a ten- foot setback from the ultimate
property line, and shall not be larger than 60 square feet.
C. In case of multiple occupancy, each occupant may have one
single-faced wall sign not to exceed 25 square feet each. Such wall signs shall be in lieu of, not
in addition to, the single-faced wall sign otherwise specified herein.
18. 46 ( 3) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Directional Signs. Directional signs, either single-faced or double- faced,
are permitted, subject to Section 18. 52. 150.
3. Safety Signs. Safety signs alert the passersby on the site to potential
dangers and include: stop, slow, curve, danger, high voltage, etc. The size, shape and color of
safety signs shall be of the same size, shape and color as contained in the current edition of the
Manual on Uniform Traffic- Control Devices for Streets and Highways, as printed by the Bureau
of Public Roads, U. S. Department of Commerce.
4. Real Estate Signs. Real estate signs are permitted subject to the
provisions of Section 18. 52. 240.
J. Refuse Collection and Storage.
1. All developments shall provide a central location( s) for the collection and
storage of refuse. Existing developments will be subject to these requirements as provided for
by Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
2. Areas designated for the collection and storage of solid waste material
shall conform with the provisions of Section 18. 58. 590 of this code.
K. Landscaping.
1. Natural resources or amenities of scenic value may be preserved in
required landscaping areas.
2. All required yard setbacks shall be landscaped.
3. Five percent of all parking areas shall be landscaped. This landscaping
shall be distributed reasonably throughout the parking area. This landscaping is to be included
in the total landscaping requirement.
L. Mechanical Equipment. All mechanical equipment, including ducting, whether at
ground or rooftop level, shall be contained in a completely screened structure. All wall air
conditioner units shall be blocked from view with material that is reasonably compatible with the
architectural styling and detailing of the building to allow proper functioning of the equipment.
M. Utilities.
1. a. All new and existing utility distribution facilities, including cable
television lines, within the boundaries of any lot or building site where a building permit is
requested or within any half-street abutting such lot or building site shall be placed underground,
except with regard to a building permit for improvements less than 25 percent of the value of the
existing building, as to existing facilities.
b. The permittee is responsible for complying with the requirements
of this subsection, and he shall make the necessary arrangements with each of the serving
utilities, including licensed cable television operators, for the installation of such facilities.
C. Transformers, terminal boxes, meter cabinets, pedestals,
concealed duct, and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such underground utilities and
street lighting systems may be placed above ground.
2. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the installation and
maintenance of overhead electric transmission lines in excess of 34,500 volts and long distance
and trunk communications facilities.
3. The installation of cable television lines may be waived when, in the
opinion of the Director of Planning, no licensed cable television operator is found to be willing
and able to install cable television lines in the subdivision.
4. a. When there is less than 600 feet of line requiring conversion, an
in- lieu fee may be applied if approved by the Public Works Director. The fee will be established
on a cost-per-foot basis using a typical 600- foot project of feeder circuit or local distribution
circuit.
b. In- lieu fees shall be deposited in a special undergrounding
account to be used as approved by the City Council for future undergrounding of utilities.
18. 46 ( 4) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
C. This subdivision may be applied to building permits existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section at any time before certificate of occupancy
is granted.
N. Metal Buildings. Buildings constructed with a metal exterior are permitted subject
to granting of a special use permit. No special use permit for a metal building shall be granted
unless the decision- making body makes the findings set forth in Section 18. 74. 120 and
specifically finds that the design and exterior architectural treatment of each metal building is
compatible with the surrounding area and with industrial buildings constructed with other
materials.
Prior Code Appendix A 1553; Ord. No. 94- 25, Amended, 10/ 25/ 94)
Section 18. 46.070 Performance Standards
All activities in the industrial park zone shall be subject to the performance standards
listed below. The applicant, at the time of submittal for building permit, and all subsequent
tenants shall certify that the industrial development complies with these performance standards.
If inspection reveals noncompliance with any of the performance standards, upon submission of
findings the City Council may direct that the industrial operation shall cease until compliance is
reestablished. The City Council may grant a compliance time of no greater than 30 days for the
project to comply with performance standards.
A. Noise or vibration created by, or resulting from, any industrial operation shall not
be audible, and in no case shall exceed seventy db. CNEL at the boundary of the industrial
park.
B. Odors, glare, heat, electrical or other disturbance created by, or resulting from,
any industrial operation shall not be detectable beyond the industrial building site on which the
disturbance is produced.
C. Discharge of air pollutants shall be subject to the air pollution control district rules
and regulations, the California State Health and Safety Code and federal air quality regulations.
D. Any discharge of industrial waste must conform to the most current local, state and
federal regulations controlling industrial waste quality and disposal.
E. No industrial operation shall in any way damage or create a nuisance to the
public health, safety or welfare.
Prior Code Appendix A 1554)
Section 18. 46.080 Improvement and Modification Conditions
A. After site development plan review and approval of an industrial park
development, no grading, building, structure or other improvement shall be located, erected or
constructed on the lot or building site, except those improvements approved by the Director of
Planning. As part of the site development plan review, the Director of Planning shall report to
the Planning Commission on each such proposed development in the industrial park zone.
B. The Planning Commission may approve modifications of the following standards
otherwise required by this chapter:
1. The masonry wall requirement may be modified to allow substitute
material.
2. The required wall height may be reduced or increased if deemed
appropriate.
3. Additional outside uses, such as picnic table areas or light recreational
areas, may be permitted in addition to those uses listed in Section 18. 46. 060.
4. Subdivision of industrial lots into parcels smaller than the minimum lot
size area or modification of required width or depth on adequate sized lots.
18. 46 ( 5) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Other modifications of requirement consistent with the industrial park
concept subject to granting of a special use permit. In approving any of these other
modifications, the Planning Commission shall make the following findings:
a. There are unusual circumstances involving the specific intended
use or uses that warrant the modification.
b. The modification or modifications are consistent with the intent
and purpose of the industrial park zone and area.
C. The modification or modifications will not detrimentally affect any
adjoining existing or future industrial park use adhering to the stipulated requirements.
d. The modification or modifications will not cause a nuisance or
inconvenience to any surrounding residential neighborhood.
Prior Code Appendix A 1556)
18. 46 ( 6) Vista 12/ 21/ 18)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.47
Civic Activity Zone
Sections:
18. 47. 010 Application
18. 47. 020 Permitted Uses
18. 47. 030 Height Limit
18. 47. 040 Front Yards and Yards Abutting Public or Private Streets
18. 47. 050 Side Yard
18. 47. 060 Rear Yard
18. 47. 070 Area
18. 47. 080 Distance Between Buildings
18. 47. 090 Development Requirements
18. 47. 100 Landscaping
18. 47. 110 Utilities
18. 47. 120 Signs
18. 47. 130 Parking
18. 47. 140 Requirements for Site Development Plans
18. 47. 150 Prior Approvals
Section 18.47.010 Application
The Civic Activity ( CA) zone shall apply only to property which is owned by a public
agency. This zoning designation is intended to implement the " Civic Activity" Land Use
Designation of the General Plan.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.020 Permitted Uses
In the Civic Activity Zone, the following uses are permitted:
A. Public buildings and uses by a public agency.
B. Temporary uses, if permitted by the public agency owning the property.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18.47.030 Height Limit
No building or structure shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height, whichever is less.
Notwithstanding, buildings and structures of greater height may be allowed, provided a special
use permit is issued, therefore, in accordance with the provisions of this code.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.040 Front Yards and Yards Abutting Public or Private Streets
No building or structure shall be located and maintained less than 20 feet from the
ultimate right-of-way line of any public or private street upon which the building site fronts.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
18. 47 ( l) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 47.050 Side Yard
Every lot and building site shall have a side yard on each side of the lot or building site,
and each side yard shall be not less than 15 feet in width.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.060 Rear Yard
Every lot and building site shall have a rear yard not less than 15 feet in depth.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.070 Area
The minimum lot area shall be 10, 000 square feet.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.080 Distance Between Buildings
There is no required distance between public buildings.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47.090 Development Requirements
Development requirements shall be the same as set forth in Section 18. 36. 130 B and C.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47. 100 Landscaping
All landscaping shall meet the requirements of Section 18. 36. 130A and Chapter 18. 56.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47. 110 Utilities
All utilities shall meet the requirements of Section 18. 36. 140.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47. 120 Signs
All signs shall meet the requirements of Chapter 18. 52 as required for the OP zone. ( Ord.
No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47. 130 Parking
Parking shall meet the requirements of Chapter 18. 54.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
Section 18. 47. 140 Requirements for Site Development Plans
All modifications of buildings and all new buildings must be approved by the City through
the site development plan process, unless exempted by Chapter 18. 64.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
18. 47 ( 2) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.47. 150 Prior Approvals
If a building or use was previously approved by a Special use permit, Minor Use Permit,
Site Development Plan, or combination of the above the conditions of approval shall take
precedence over the requirements of this chapter. Additions or modifications to any use or
building approved by prior special use permit, minor use permit or Site Development Plan shall
be by Site Development Plan, unless a building of greater height than two stories is proposed, in
which case a special use permit is required.
Ord. No. 91- 10, Enacted, 05/ 14/ 91)
18. 47 ( 3) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.48
General Plan
Sections:
18. 48. 010 Adoption and Contents of Plan - Statutory Authority
18. 48. 020 Amendments
18. 48. 030 Conformance with General Plan
18. 48. 040 Interpretation of Plan - Appeals
Section 18. 48.010 Adoption and Contents of Plan - Statutory Authority
A. The development of the City shall be guided by a General Plan adopted and
administered in conformity with Articles 5 through 7 of Chapter 3 of Title 7 of the Government
Code of the state.
B. The General Plan shall consist of a statement of development policies with maps,
diagrams and text setting forth objectives, principles, standards and plan proposals, and shall
include those elements required by state law and such other elements as are adopted from time
to time. The text, documents and maps shall be endorsed in the manner provided by the City
Council, and the original copies thereof will be filed with the Secretary of the Planning
Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 1601)
Section 18. 48.020 Amendments
A. The General Plan shall be reviewed periodically as conditions may require, and
amendments shall be made thereto as provided by law. Upon approval, amendments to the
General Plan shall be endorsed in the same manner as the original and filed with the Secretary
of the Planning Commission. Proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance which are not
consistent with the General Plan may not be recommended or adopted until the General Plan is
amended to eliminate such inconsistencies.
B. Such General Plan amendments shall be considered in accordance with the
following procedures:
1. Any hearing for such General Plan amendment and zone changes or
zoning ordinance amendment may be held concurrently by both the Planning Commission and
the City Council; provided, however, that a denial of the General Plan amendment shall
constitute denial of the zoning ordinance amendment if such zoning ordinance amendment
requires the General Plan amendment to conform to the General Plan.
2. No General Plan element required by state law shall be amended more
than four times in any calendar year, exclusive of the adoption of the element; provided,
however, that any element may be amended additional times provided that such additional
amendments shall be found to be necessary to encourage low and moderate income housing
within the city.
3. Amendments to the General Plan may be initiated by the City Council,
Planning Commission, City staff or any person owning property or residing within the sphere of
influence of the City. Each application for such amendment by an owner/resident shall be made
on forms provided by the Director of Planning and shall be covered by a fee as set forth by
resolution of the City Council. The application shall also be accompanied by all required
environmental documents in accordance with the City's environmental quality regulations. Each
application shall be considered by the Planning Commission at a public hearing which shall
18. 48 ( l) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
make a recommendation to the City Council, as provided by law. The City Council shall hold a
public hearing on the application as provided by law and should the City Council wish to amend
the General Plan, it may do so by adoption of a resolution at any time. Due to the necessity for
reducing the number of General Plan amendments in any one calendar year, separate
applications shall be combined into one application and held on such combined applications and
after required hearings of determination made by the City Council, whenever such combination
is feasible.
Prior Code Appendix A 1602)
Section 18. 48.030 Conformance with General Plan
The General Plan shall be administered as provided by law. The zoning ordinance must
be consistent with the General Plan. " Consistency" means that the various land uses authorized
by the zoning ordinance are compatible with the objectives, policies, general land uses and
programs specified in such plan. In no case shall the City approve any amendment to the
zoning ordinance, zone change or special use permit that is inconsistent with the General Plan.
In the event that the zoning ordinance becomes inconsistent with the General Plan by reason of
amendment to such plan, or to an element of such plan, the zoning ordinance shall be amended
within a reasonable time so that it is consistent with the General Plan as amended.
Prior Code Appendix A 1603)
Section 18. 48.040 Interpretation of Plan - Appeals
A. It shall be the duty of the Director of Planning to render necessary interpretations
of the General Plan designation of any property and of provisions, policy standards and
regulations set forth in the General Plan in writing.
B. Any appeal of the decision of the City Planner shall be filed pursuant to Section
18. 04. 150.
C. In granting an appeal, the Planning Commission or City Council shall find that the
selected land use designation is with reasonable proximity of the same land use designation on
the existing land use map of the General Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1604; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
18. 48 ( 2) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 50
Specific Plans
Sections:
18. 50.010 Purpose and Adoption of Provisions
18. 50.020 Conformance with Plan
18. 50. 030 Variances from Provisions
Section 1830.010 Purpose and Adoption of Provisions
A. Purpose. Wherein the zoning map establishes only zone boundaries, the text of
the ordinance establishes the permitted use of land in the various zones and the conditions
applicable to such use, and the adopted General Plan indicates the general location of future
land uses, a specific plan, as the term is employed in this chapter, has the following purposes:
1. To apply the provisions and requirements of the ordinance and General
Plan in specific detail by means of a map, including possible streets, alleys and other public
dedications, the establishment of which would be accomplished in the manner otherwise
provided by law and to provide for the design and placement of essential related facilities such
as off-street parking, loading and unloading areas, points of ingress and egress, particularly
related to bordering traffic flow; the placement and arrangement of buildings, and other subjects
not included in this chapter but which are essential to public safety and general welfare such as
controlling the pattern and flow of traffic and such other related details as represent modern
specialized land development and use.
2. To provide similar plans for the consolidated use of subdivided property,
the dimensions, shape and size of which do not individually lend themselves advantageously to
any form of modern land utilization.
B. Adoption.
1. Such specific plans shall be adopted in the manner prescribed for
amending the zoning map, and such specific plans, when so adopted, shall constitute
amendments to the zoning map as to zone classifications, where involved, and the details of
such specific plans shall supersede and shall take the place of the requirements and conditions
upon the use of land as established by this chapter, insofar as the property contained in the
specific plans is concerned.
2. A specific plan, when adopted as provided in this chapter, shall be
considered as being a specific plan within the full meaning of the State Conservation and
Planning Law and, because the adoption of such specific plan accomplishes both the
amendment of the zoning map and the establishment of detailed subjects other than zoning
matters, separate but concurrent proceedings shall be employed. The resulting specific plan
shall be separately recorded both as a component of the comprehensive General Plan and as
an amendment to the zoning ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 1701)
Section 18. 50.020 Conformance with Plan
In order to assure that the purpose and provisions of a formally adopted specific plan of
record shall be conformed to, the land reclassified within any specific plan of record shall be
limited exclusively to such uses as are first permitted in the zone to which it is classified. Uses
shown on such specific plan, including automobile parking, shall conform to such specific plan,
even though such uses are not otherwise specifically classified by this chapter as permissible in
any given zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 1702)
18. 50 ( l) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 50.030 Variances from Provisions
No variances shall be permitted from the conditions of a specific plan without an
amendment to the specific plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 1703)
18. 50 ( 2) Vista 7/ 13/ 11)
Chapter 18. 52
Signs on Private Property
Sections:
18. 52.010 Title, Scope, Purpose, Obligation, Prior Study
18. 52.020 Definitions
18. 52.030 Interests Served
18. 52.040 Neutral Administration
18. 52.050 General Regulations
18. 52.060 Regulations by Sign Type
18. 52.070 Temporary Signs
18. 52.080 Signs on City Property
18. 52.090 Mobile Billboards  Prohibited
18. 52. 100 Non- Permitted Excess Signage - Prohibited
18. 52. 110 Permit Procedures
18. 52. 120 Signs Not Requiring a Sign Permit
18. 52. 130 Enforcement
18. 52. 140 Discontinued and Illegal Signs - Nuisance
18. 52. 150 Legal Nonconforming Signs and Abatement Process
18. 52. 160 Severability
Section 18. 52.010 Title, Scope, Purpose, Obligation, Prior Study
A. Title. This chapter shall be known as the "Signs on Private Property Ordinance."
B. Scope. This chapter regulates signs, as defined herein, which are within the
legal corporate limits of the city, but not on City property. Signs on City property and the public
right- of-way are controlled by Chapter 12.20. This chapter does not regulate signs used in
conjunction with parades, demonstrations and public assemblies; which, instead, are governed
by Chapter 12. 12 ( Permits for Block Parties and Street Events) and Chapter 12. 13 ( Permits for
Park Events.)
C. Obligation to Satisfy Other Legal Requirements. This chapter does not modify
state or federal laws pertaining to the regulation or display of signs. In addition to satisfying the
minimum standards set forth in this chapter, the erection, display, and maintenance of any sign
must also satisfy all applicable requirements imposed by other statutes, laws, ordinances and
regulations, and codes, including without limitation, the building code, plumbing code, grading
code, the electrical code, and storm water regulations.
D. Easements and Covenants. This chapter does not abrogate, override, limit,
modify, or nullify any easements, covenants, leases or other existing private agreements that
are more restrictive than this chapter.
E. Special Events. This chapter does not regulate signs that are displayed as part
of a special event operating under a permit issued pursuant to Chapters 12. 12 ( Permits for
Block Parties and Street Events) or 12. 13 of the Vista Municipal Code ( Permits for Park Events).
F. Prior Study. Prior to the adoption of this ordinance amending Chapter 18. 52, the
City of Vista conducted an inventory of all sign displays within the city that were legal, illegal, or
non- conforming, under the then- existing law, in accordance with Section 5491. 1 of the California
Business and Professions Code. Having considered that study at the public hearing during
which this ordinance was adopted, the City Council has determined that there is a need for the
ordinance to take effect in a manner to apply to all existing signs within the city.
Prior Code Appendix A1800; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 27/ 00;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended 5/ 24/ 11)
18. 52 ( l) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Section 18. 52.020 Definitions
Advertising message" means any visual image displayed for the purpose of attracting
attention of the public or potential customers, or communicating a commercial or noncommercial
message or depiction.
Animated sign (blinking, flashing)" means a sign which includes a component
presenting action or motion, including, without limitation, blinking, flashing, color changes, or
wind- actuated motions. Excluded from the definition, are signs where the copy changes not
more than once every 24 hours.
Animated window sign" means an electronic, animated sign placed in on the interior-side
of a window within a building.
Awning" means a temporary shelter supported from the exterior wall of a building over
a door or window opening.
Awning sign" means any sign painted on, attached to, or constructed on an awning or
w the valance thereof.
Balloon" or " inflatable sign" means a bag or other container of any shape or size,
made of thin rubber or other light material, inflated with air or gas. The term balloon does not
include: ( 1) inflatable objects displayed on residential properties for purposes of temporary
celebration, but the term does include inflatable objects displayed on non- residential properties;
or ( 2) handheld inflatable objects of not more than two cubic feet.
Banner" means any plastic, vinyl, fabric, paper, or similar material, other than a flag or
pennant, used to advertise goods, services, or events, garner attention or communicate, which
is temporarily affixed to real property in a location where it is visible to the public from outside
the building or structure.
Billboard" or " off-site sign" or " off-premises sign" means a permanent structure
sign in a fixed location which meets any one or more of the following criteria: ( 1) it is intended to
be used for, or is actually used for the display of general advertising or general advertising for
hire; ( 2) it is used for the display of commercial advertising messages which pertain to products
and/ or services which are offered at a different location, also known as " off-site commercial'
messages; ( 3) it constitutes a separate principal use of the property, in contrast to an auxiliary,
accessory or appurtenant use of the principal use of the property; ( 4) it functions as a profit
center separate from another use on the same or an adjacent parcel. Bus benches with
advertising are not included within this definition.
Blade sign" or " projecting sign" means a sign
which projects more than 12 inches from the face of an Fr
exterior building wall or facade and which uses the building
wall as its primary source of support.
COMPANY NAME
18. 52 ( 2) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Building complex" means a building or group of buildings on one or more lots or
building sites containing two to four commercial or industrial tenant spaces which share a
common parking area. ( See " Center" for five or more tenants.)
Fac" cf Building face and/ or frontage" means the area
V T
of the front building elevation in which the`
F' tFTi fTestablishment
is located and which faces a
publicly dedicated street, private street, or parking
rT lot excluding driveways and aisles. If more than
one establishment is located in a single building,
then such area shall be limited to that portion
which is occupied by each individual
r establishment.
Canopy" means a permanent roofed structure that
provides shelter, and that projects from a building wall or is
supported by columns, such as false mansards, projecting
building facade facings, service station pump island shelters,
and other architectural features which project from a building ,
wall above a height of eight feet.
Canopy sign" means a sign painted on, attached to,
or constructed on a canopy.
Center" means a development which includes five or
more tenant spaces in which businesses and structures are designed as an architecturally
integrated and interrelated development. Such design is independent of the number of
structures, lots, or parcels making up the center. ( See " Building Complex" for two to four
tenants.)
City property" means land or other property in which the City or a city-related entity
holds a present right of possession and control including, without limitation, by lease, city road
easements, and all public rights of way, regardless of ownership.
City-related entity" means any governmental entity with a legislative body comprised
of the membership of the Vista City Council, including, without limitation, the Community
Development Commission of the City of Vista and the Buena Sanitation District.
Commercial copy" means words or symbols which propose, solicit, advertise, or
promote a business or economic transaction or which concern primarily the economic interests
of the sign sponsor and/ or intended audience.
Comprehensive sign program" means a form of approval required for certain
developments described in Section 18. 52. 050 which must be obtained prior to erecting certain
signs and which is intended to integrate signs with building and landscaping design in order to
achieve visually thematic and architectural unity for commercial, industrial, and multi-family
residential projects.
Construction project sign" means a temporary sign on real property on which
construction of new improvements is occurring.
Copy" means any words, letters, numbers, figures, logos, designs or other symbolic
representations incorporated into a sign.
Designated BID Areas" means those portions of the Central Vista Downtown
Business Improvement District designed in Exhibit A where portable signs may be placed in
accordance with this Chapter.
18. 52 ( 3) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Directional sign" means on- site signs or signs within an area subject to a
comprehensive sign program designed to guide or direct pedestrian or vehicular traffic and
which contain no matter specifying product or services.
Discontinued sign" means any sign which for a period of six continuous months: ( 1)
has not been put to an active use; or ( 2) has not advertised an ongoing establishment; or ( 3)
advertises a use or service which has been discontinued; or ( 4) was used to advertise an
establishment or use at premises which are vacant; or ( 5) which otherwise constitutes an
abandoned sign under the Outdoor Advertising Act ( California Business and Professions Code
Sections 5200 et seq); or ( 6) which otherwise constitutes an abandoned sign under the On-
Premises Sign Act ( California Business and Professions Code Sections 5490 et seq).
Display face" means that portion of a sign upon which is mounted, attached or
presented the visually communicative image.
Drive-thru services menu board" means a permanent sign that is exclusively
oriented to those using the drive-thru lane for a restaurant or other establishment which
advertises only food items or services directly sold or provided at the premises.
Election period" means a period commencing 35 days prior to, and ending five days
following, an election open to registered voters within the City of Vista.
Electronic message board" or " digital display" means a permanent sign that can be
programmed to display different electronic messages or images. The term includes a sign
which, for all or part of its display area, uses digital technology, such as LED ( light emitting
diodes), LCD ( liquid crystal display), plasma display, or projected images, often by automatic or
remote control. The term also includes functionally equivalent technologies.
Establishment" means a use of land, other than long term residential, which involves
structures subject to a building permit and the customary presence of human beings at least ten
hours per week. Residential uses, automated uses are not within this definition. By way of
example and not limitation, the term includes stores, factories, warehouses, schools, libraries,
churches, workshops, hospitals, offices, theaters, hotels and motels and " bed and breakfast"
establishments offering transient occupancy, but does not include power transformers,
broadcasting towers, unattended automated teller machines, vending machines, agricultural or
long term residential uses.
Flag" means a cloth or sheet of material, other than a pennant, often rectangular,
carrying a distinctive design and used as an emblem, attached at one end to a pole or staff in a
manner which allows it to flow freely in the wind.
General advertising" means the business or enterprise of making a sign display face
available to a variety of advertisers, whether they be businesses or other establishments. This
definition applies even when the display face is donated or made available at a reduced rate or
for " in kind" consideration. Also known as " general advertising for hire." General advertising is
in contrast to self-promotion advertising.
Halo- lit sign" means a sign where light is emitted from the back of letters and/ or logos
onto a surface thereby creating a halo effect around the sign.
Hand held commercial" or " personally-attended commercial" means a sign which
conveys a commercial message and is held by, physically controlled by, attached to, or
mounted on a person or an animal. Visible images which are displayed as part of personal
apparel, and other aspects of personal appearance, shall not be considered signage for
purposes of this Chapter.
Hand held commercial sign display standards" is defined in Section 18. 52. 080.
Hand held noncommercial" or " personally-attended noncommercial" means a
sign which conveys a noncommercial message and is held by, physically controlled by, attached
to, or mounted on a person or an animal." Visible images which are displayed as part of
personal apparel and other aspects of personal appearance shall not be considered as signage
for purposes of this Chapter.
18. 52 ( 4) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Historic Marquee Sign" means a marquee sign located at either 420 Vista Village
Drive or 2011 W. Vista Way which has been maintained as an on- premises sign, from a date
prior to the adoption of Ordinance No. 92- 25 ( November 17, 1992), without physical change,
except for minor maintenance required to preserve the sign in its original state. Any sign
qualifying as a historic marquee sign shall immediately and permanently lose its status as a
historic marquee sign if the sign is expanded, modified, or temporarily, intermittently or
otherwise operated, for any time, as a billboard, an off-premises sign, or an off-site sign.
Housing complex sign" means a sign, other than a residential sign or a real estate
sign, at an apartment building, mobile home park, condominium subdivision, or planned unit
development.
Illegal sign" means a sign which: ( 1) was erected without first complying with all
ordinances, statutes and regulations in effect at the time of its construction and execution or
use, or ( 2) became nonconforming after an enactment or amendment of an ordinance or statute
which has an expired amortization period; or ( 3) is a danger to the public or is otherwise unsafe;
or ( 4) is a traffic hazard; or ( 5) is an illegal sign under either the Outdoor Advertising Act
California Business and Professions Code Sections 5200 et seq); or the On- Premises Sign Act
California Business and Professions Code Sections 5490 et seq).
Illuminated sign" means a sign in which a source of light is used in order to make the
message understandable during all hours or certain hours of the day, including internally and
externally lighted signs and glowing or radiating signs.
Marquee sign" means a sign which accommodates interchangeable copy and: ( 1) is
mounted on an outside permanent roofed structure projecting over public or private sidewalks or
rights- of-way which is attached to and supported by a building; or ( 2) is a monument sign or a
pole sign- generally that does not exceed a height of six feet.
Mobile billboard" means any wheeled vehicle used primarily for the display of general
advertising or general advertising for hire, by means of traversing upon any public street or
parking on any public street in a manner that the advertising image(s) on the vehicle are visible
from any portion of the public right-of-way. Also known as " sign truck" or " billboard truck." This
definition does not apply to vehicles displaying images related to the same business or
establishment of which the vehicle is an operating instrument, such as, by way of example and
not limitation, an advertisement for a grocery store on a truck delivering merchandise to that
store. Also, it does not apply to vehicles which are on the public road for the primary purpose of
transportation, such as taxis and buses, even if such vehicles display general advertising.
Monument sign" means a sign which is placed
directly upon the ground and does not exceed a heightofp
six feet.
Neon Sign" means a sign which incorporates
lighted neon tubes or other fluorescing gas as all or a portion of the advertising message.
Noncommercial message" means a message displayed on a sign which expresses
an idea or point of view on a topic of public debate and concern, including politics, religion,
education, art, science, history, and social issues.
Noncommercial sign" means a sign displaying a noncommercial message.
18. 52 ( 5) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Non- communicative aspects" means those characteristics of a sign which do not
present a communicative visual image to the public, such as size, height, setback, structural
strength or weight, illumination method, density, orientation, etc.
Nonconforming sign" means a sign, other than an illegal sign, which was lawfully
erected with permits and in conformity with all then- applicable laws, ordinances, and
regulations, but which no longer conforms to one or more applicable law, ordinance, or
regulation.
On- site sign" or " on- premises sign" means a sign displaying a commercial message
which directs attention to a commercial or industrial occupancy, establishment, commodity,
good, product, service or other commercial or industrial activity conducted, sold or offered or
expected to be offered in the near future upon the site where the sign is maintained. The onsite/
off-site distinction applies only to commercial message signs. For purposes of this chapter,
all signs with noncommercial speech messages shall be deemed to be " on- site," regardless of
location. On- site signs do not include signs erected by the outdoor advertising industry in the
conduct of outdoor advertising business, or used as general advertising for hire. Construction
signs are considered on- site when the displayed message pertains to the construction project
and/ or the anticipated future use.
Pennant" means a tapering, usually triangular or " swallow-tail" device made of flexible
material mounted on a lead or cable.
Personally attended" means that a person is physically present within five feet of the
sign at all times.
Pole sign" means a sign which is wholly
supported by one or more columns or poles set into the
ground.
s J i`
ter
Portable sign" means any sign, not personally held or attended,
which can be easily moved from place to place which is not
permanently affixed to the ground or to a building. Hand held signs
are not within this definition.
Project noticing  project on- site sign" means public notice signs that are required
to be placed on a project site due to submittal of a discretionary permit application to the City.
These types of signs do not require a sign permit.
Real estate sign - commercial" means a temporary sign located on a property for
sale or lease: ( 1) which provides information regarding the sale, lease, or other proposed
economic transaction of such property; and ( 2) is zoned for commercial use, industrial use, or
which is zoned for or developed with a multiple dwelling.
Real estate sign - general" means a temporary sign providing information about the
sale, lease or other proposed economic transaction of the property upon which it is located; by
way of example, but not limitation, all signs described in Civil Code Section 713, are within this
definition. It does not include signs displaying information about short-term occupancy, such as
hotel motel " bed and breakfast" occupancy or prices.
Regular canopy sign" means a canopy sign other than an under canopy sign.
18. 52 ( 6) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Residential sign" means a sign, other than a real estate sign, located on property
used for residential purposes ( other than transient occupancy) and located within an area
controlled by an individual residential unit.
Roof sign" means a sign mounted upon or above a roof or parapet of a building or
structure and which is wholly or partially supported by said building or structure. A sign which
does not project above the roof line or roof edge may be considered a wall sign if it meets the
criteria specified in the definition of a wall sign.
Rotating sign" means a sign which turns any amount in any direction.
Sign" means any visually communicative image on display, visible from an area open
to the public which is outside of a structure. Such images may consist of lettering, text,
graphics, and humans and animals in distinctive garb or decoration; however, notwithstanding
the generality of the foregoing, the following are not within the definition of sign:
1. Official notices issued by any court or public body or officer.
2. Notices posted by any public officer in performance of a public duty or by
any person in giving legal notice ( except for project noticing/ project on- site signs  see Sign
Table 18. 52. 060A, which must comply with this chapter).
3. Directional warning or information structures required by or authorized by
law or by federal, state, or local authority.
4. A structure erected near a city, county, or neighborhood boundary which
contains information regarding the name of said jurisdiction or area, or civic, fraternal, or
religious organizations located therein.
5. Interior signs. Signs or other visual communicative devices that are
located entirely within a lawful building or structure and do not otherwise qualify as a window
sign.
6. Architectural features. Decorative or architectural features of buildings
not including lettering, trademarks or moving parts).
7. Symbols in architecture. Symbols of noncommercial organizations or
concepts including, but not limited to, religious or political symbols, when such are permanently
integrated into the structure of a permanent building which is otherwise legal.
8. Personal appearance. Items or devices of personal apparel, decoration
or appearance, including tattoos, makeup, costumes.
9. Manufacturers' marks. Marks on tangible products, which identify the
maker, seller, provider or product, and which customarily remain attached to the product even
after sale.
10. Fireworks, etc. the legal use of fireworks, candles and artificial lighting not
otherwise regulated by this chapter.
11. Mass transit signage. Advertisements or banners mounted on trains or
duly licensed mass transit vehicles that legally pass through the city.
12. Grave stones or grave markers.
13. Memorial tablets, plaques and directional signs for community historical
resources.
14. Newsracks and newsstands.
15. Seasonal and holiday decorations in season ( but not including balloons or
inflatable objects on non- residential properties).
16. Any artwork, including murals, placed on a wall, structure, or fence owned
by the City or in which the City has obtained a property or contractual interest for purposes of
displaying art as part of a public art program.
Site" means one or more parcels of land identified by the assessor's records and for
which a building or building complex or center exists or has been proposed.
18. 52 ( 7) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Street frontage" means, as applicable, the length of the horizontal distance of a
property parallel to and adjacent to: ( 1) a dedicated and improved public street; or (2) a right- ofway
for ingress and egress dedicated to public use, excluding alleys.
Temporary on- site sign" means a sign displayed on the site of activity for limited
period of time only.
Temporary signs during election periods" means a sign which conveys any lawful
noncommercial message, which satisfies the requirements particular to those signs as set forth
in Section 18. 52. 060, and which are on display during an election period.
Ultimate street line" means the future boundary line between a street and the property
abutting such street as established by Specific Plan or General Plan adopted pursuant to the
State Conservation and Planning Act.
Uniform Building code" means the current edition of the Uniform Building Code as
adopted by the City.
Uniform Sign code" means the current edition of the Uniform Sign Code as adopted
by the City.
Wall sign" means a sign which is painted upon, attached to or erected against the
exterior wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the
plane of said wall.
A parapet or
canopy wall sign
shall be considered
a wall sign,
provided they are
architecturally Company
FACTORY STORE
integrated with the
building and do not
project above the
roof-line or roof
edge. The exposed
face of such signs shall also be in a plane parallel to the plane of the exterior walls.
Window sign" means any sign painted or affixed to the inside or outside of a window
surface, or otherwise so located within a building so that its primary function is to be viewed
from the exterior of the building. Window signs do not include window displays of merchandise
offered for routine sale by a business or establishment or which are used in its routine
operations.
Prior Code Appendix A 1801; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 27/ 00;
Ord. No. 2002- 17, Amended, 08/ 27/02; Ord. No. 2007- 25, Amended, 11/ 27/ 07; Ord. No. 2010- 16,
Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52.030 Interests Served
This chapter seeks to balance the constitutional right to free speech, by means of sign
display, against the community impacts of excessive or inappropriate signage. The interests to
be served by this chapter include, but are not necessarily limited to, community aesthetics,
traffic and pedestrian safety, the promotion of tourism and commerce, and the overall quality of
life as affected by signs. Specifically, this chapter seeks to advance the following goals without
permitting a violation of any other lawful ordinance:
A. Protect the general public health, safety, and welfare.
B. Advance the goals, policies and strategies of the General Plan, Zoning Code,
and Design Guidelines.
C. Reduce traffic and safety hazards.
18. 52 ( 8) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
D. Provide directional and destination information to various activities and land
uses, in order to serve the public convenience.
E. Establish content- neutral regulations for the design, quality of materials, number,
size, construction, location, illumination, maintenance and other related aspects of signs and
sign structures.
F. Provide uniform standards which promote fair competition and unique
identification within the business community.
G. Provide clear regulations which provide fair notice, and provide review
procedures for any individual action or program undertaken to enforce the requirements of this
chapter.
H. Comply with state and federal laws requiring the display of signs and notices.
I. Provide a reasonable system of sign regulations, to ensure the development of a
high quality visual environment.
J. Ensure that signs are appropriately maintained, and professional in appearance.
K. Encourage a desirable community character which has a minimum of visual
clutter.
L. Enhance the economic value of the community and each area, business and use
thereof through the regulation of the non- communicative aspects of signs.
M. Encourage signs which are architecturally compatible with their location and
adjacent land uses.
N. Promote signs which present a cohesive stylistic pattern.
Prior Code Appendix A 1802; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended,
06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52.040 Neutral Administration
The provisions and policies stated in this section apply to all signs within the regulatory
scope of this chapter, and override any more specific provisions to the contrary contained
anywhere within this chapter.
A. Message neutrality. It is the City' s policy to regulate signs in a constitutional
manner, which is content neutral as to noncommercial signs and at least viewpoint neutral as to
commercial signs.
B. Regulatory interpretations. All regulatory interpretations of this chapter are to be
exercised in light of the City' s message neutrality and substitution of messages policies.
Whenever any sign permit or other authorization is subject to a discretionary review, such
review shall not consider the message content of the sign, other than whether any proposed
commercial messages thereon are off-site or on- site. Where a particular type of sign is
proposed in a permit application, and the type is neither expressly allowed nor prohibited by this
chapter, or whenever a sign does not qualify as a " structure" as defined in the building code,
then the Community Development Director or his/ her designee shall approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the application based on the most similar sign type that is expressly
regulated by this chapter.
C. Substitution of messages. Subject to the land owner' s consent, a noncommercial
message of any type may be substituted for any duly permitted or allowed commercial message
or any duly permitted or allowed noncommercial message, provided that the sign structure or
mounting device is legal without consideration of message content. Such substitution of
message may be made without any additional approval or permitting, however, it must comply
with existing sign regulations or applicable code sections. This provision prevails over any more
specific provision to the contrary within this chapter. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any
particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This provision
18. 52 ( 9) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
does not create a right to increase the total amount of signage on a parcel or land use, nor does
it affect the requirement that a sign structure or mounting device be properly permitted. This
provision does not allow for the substitution of an off-site commercial message in place of an
on- site commercial message.
D. Rules for non- communicative aspects of signs. All rules and regulations
concerning the non- communicative aspects of signs, such as location, size, height, illumination,
spacing, orientation, etc., stand enforceable independently of any permit or approval process.
E. Billboard policy ( off-site, off-premises sign). The City completely prohibits the
construction, erection, use, or conversion to digital or electronic display of any billboards, as
defined in this chapter, other than the maintenance of billboards which were lawfully in
existence in the city, on the date on which the city first adopted an ordinance prohibiting
billboards or for which a valid permit has been issued and has not expired, as of the date on
which this provision is first adopted. The City adopts this policy pursuant to California
Government Code section 65850, California Business and Professions Code sections 5354( a)
and 5408. 3 ( both effective January 1, 2003). No permit shall be issued for any billboard which
violates this policy, and the City will take immediate abatement action against any billboard
constructed or maintained in violation of this policy. The City Council affirmatively declares that
it would have adopted this billboard policy even if it were the only provision in this chapter. The
City Council intends for this billboard policy to be severable and separately enforceable even if
other provision( s) of this chapter may be declared, by a court of competent jurisdiction, to be
unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable. This provision does not prohibit agreements to
relocate presently existing, legal billboards, as encouraged by California Business and
Professions Code Section 5412.
Prior Code Appendix A 1803; Ord. No. 92- 25, Renumbered, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended,
06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52.050 General Regulations
A. Purpose and Intent. The general regulations set forth in this section are intended
to provide direction and parameters for the design, size, height and location of signs. The
requirements are minimum standards which, by themselves, may not achieve compatibility with
building architecture, the neighborhood and the community appearance to the degree required
by this chapter or other applicable requirements. In the course of reviewing sign permits, proper
consideration shall be given to the sign' s relationship to the overall appearance of the subject
property and surrounding area to achieve the goals and purposes of this chapter.
B. Sign Area
1. Definitions.
a. Sign area means the entire background area of a sign upon which
copy may be placed.
b. Copy area means the actual area of the visually communicative
imagery and sign copy applied to any background. In computing copy area, straight lines are
drawn closest to the copy extremities encompassing individual words, symbols or logos to
produce the smallest parallelogram which encloses the entire image. The area within the
parallelogram shall be the copy area.
2. Computation of Sign Area
a. Single-faced Signs. The area of a sign shall be computed based
on the entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the sign
background area, including all words, symbols, emblems, representations or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the sign or display. The area of a
sign shall exclude the structures or uprights on which the sign is supported, unless such
supports or uprights are designed in a manner so as to form an integral background of the sign.
18. 52 ( 10) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
b. Multiple- faced Signs. In the case of a sign which has two or more
faces, the area of all faces shall be included in computing the area of the sign, except that if two
such faces are placed back to back and are no more than 24 inches apart at any point, the area
of the sign shall be the area of one face, or the area of the larger face, if the two faces are
unequal in area. In the case of a sign of spherical, cylindrical, semi- cylindrical, or other irregular
shapes, the area of the sign shall be one- half of the surface area thereof.
C. Computation of Sign Height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at finished grade to the top of the highest attached
component of the sign.
D. Construction of Signs
1. All permanent sign faces shall be constructed of permanent materials
including, but not limited to, painted and/ or sandblasted wood, ceramic tile, applied letters,
carved wood, metal, plastic or other compatible, durable and waterproof material. No material
more combustible than treated wood shall be used in the construction of any permanent sign.
2. Structural design. Structural design of all signs shall conform to the
requirements of the Uniform Building Code, and all the applicable codes currently in effect.
3. All signs shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable Uniform
Building Code and National Electrical Code provisions. Exposed- tube neon signs shall be
constructed and installed in compliance with the National Electrical Code.
4. No sign or sign structure shall be placed or constructed so that it impairs
the sight distance requirements indicated in Figure 1 or Figure 2 at any public or private street
intersection, or driveway. Signs shall be constructed or installed so as to not obstruct line of
sight for pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicular drivers.
Signal or
Stop Sign
Public or Private Street Public or Private Street
6 feet PL
40 feet PL
6 40
feet
12
feet
6
fe
fe
c i
P7
0 1 eL 12 feet
Private Driveway Private Driveway
P
6 feet 12 feet
6
12
fec i
fe ct
Figure 1 - Controlled Intersection Figure 2- Uncontrolled Intersection
5. Exposed sign support hardware shall be of a compatible material and
design with the sign it supports and shall compliment the architecture and design of building to
which it is affixed. Sign supports of a permanent sign shall be reviewed as part of the sign
permit application.
18. 52 ( 11) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
6. Sign design, scale, color and materials shall be selected that are
compatible in style with the building it serves. Brand logos shall be allowed as part of the sign
as long as it is proportionate and compatible with the building in terms of size and scale.
7. Fluorescent colors and reflective surfaces are prohibited.
E. Lighting of Signs
1. Exposed neon lighting is prohibited, except when used for accent as part
of a sign. Halolighting or internal reverse illumination is also permitted for blade/projecting and
wall signs only.
2. Illuminated signs shall comply with the following provisions in addition to
any others established in this chapter for the appropriate sign classification:
a. Electrical lines from buildings to signs shall be concealed from
public view.
b. Exposed raceways are prohibited.
C. Light fixtures in planted areas shall be screened.
d. All external lighting shall be directed away from any adjacent
residential uses and public rights- of-way.
e. Signs shall be designed and oriented to minimize light or glare
upon adjacent residential uses and public rights- of-way.
f. No sign shall be illuminated by bulbs, tubes, fire, flame, or sparks
visible from any public street.
g. No sign shall employ strobe lights, or any other light source that
pulsates, blinks or flashes excluding small twinkle lights similar to those commonly used for
seasonal holiday lighting.
h. No sign shall employ the use of mirrors or any other highly
reflective surface so as to direct or reflect any natural or artificial light onto any public right-ofway
or adjoining property.
i. No illuminated sign in an O- P, C- 1, C- 2, C- 3, M- 1 or mixed- use
zone shall be placed within 75 feet of any property line which adjoins residentially zoned
property.
j. No illumination source shall be directed so that direct glare from
the source is visible from any point beyond the lot or building site upon which the light source is
located.
F. Landscaping
1. Landscaped planter areas shall be required to be installed at the base of
all permanent freestanding, freeway- oriented pole, monument, and housing complex signs.
2. The area of the landscaped planter shall be at least equal in size to the
area of two sign faces for freestanding and freeway- oriented signs and one ( 1) sign face for
monument and housing complex signs.
3. All landscaped planters shall be irrigated and landscaped with drought
tolerant, low maintenance plant materials in accordance with Chapter 18. 56. The type of
irrigation required will be dependent on the type of landscaping proposed.
4. All landscaped planter areas and plant materials shall be maintained in a
neat and healthy manner and shall be kept free of all debris and trash.
G. Relationship to Buildings and Other Signs
1. Signs located upon a lot with only one main building, shall be designed to
incorporate at least one of the predominantly visual elements of such building, such as type of
construction materials, color, or other design detail. Each sign located upon a lot with more
than one main building, such as a shopping center or other commercial or industrial complex,
shall be designed to incorporate at least one of such predominantly visual design elements
common to all such buildings or the buildings occupied by the " main tenants" or principal
enterprises.
18. 52 ( 12) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
2. All such signs shall have designs which are well related to each other by
the similar treatment or incorporation of similar design elements, such as type of construction
materials, letter style of the sign copy, shape of the entire sign.
H. Maintenance
1. All signs shall comply with the following maintenance regulations.
a. All signs and sign supports shall be maintained in a clean and
safe condition.
b. Signs shall be maintained in a graffiti- free condition.
C. The owner shall keep the display area of all signs neatly printed or
posted at all times and shall correct any painting, fading, chipping, peeling, or flaking paint or
plastic and mechanical or structural defect.
I. Specific Sign Prohibitions.
1. Signs in Public Right-of-Way. No signs shall be permitted to encroach on
any public right- of-way except as otherwise authorized by this chapter. Signs shall not be nailed
or attached to trees, traffic control devices or public utility poles. Any sign in violation of this
provision may be removed.
2. Unsafe Signs. Any sign which constitutes an immediate hazard to the
safety of any persons or property may be removed by the City upon ascertainment of such facts
by the City Planner or designee.
3. Signs not Specifically Permitted. Signs not specifically permitted by this
chapter, are hereby specifically prohibited.
4. New billboards are prohibited.
J. Mixed Use Zones. In any zone where both residential and non- residential uses
are allowed, the signage rights and responsibilities applicable to any particular use shall be
determined as follows: residential uses shall be treated as if they were located in a residential
zone, and nonresidential uses shall be treated as if they were located in a zone where that
particular use would be allowed, either as a matter of right or subject to a Special Use Permit or
similar discretionary process.
K. Signs in Overlay Zones and Specific Plan Areas. All sign requirements of this
chapter are associated with the underlying zone in which the sign is proposed; however, overlay
zones and Specific Plan Areas adopted by the City may alter these requirements based upon
the specific conditions and circumstances.
L. Comprehensive Sign Program ( CSP)
1. A CSP shall be required for all new or rehabilitated commercial and
industrial centers consisting of two or more tenant spaces and multi- family residential projects of
more than two units. A CSP shall also be required for all projects requiring a Site Development
Plan, Special Use Permit, or for any signage proposal which deviates from the regulations
presented in this chapter.
2. When a Site Development Plan or Special Use Permit is required, the
CSP shall be concurrently submitted and evaluated. If a Site Development Plan or Special Use
Permit is not required, the CSP shall be reviewed independently by the City Planner. The
purpose of the program shall be to integrate signs with the building architectural design and
landscaping design into a unified theme. In order to achieve this purpose, all signs must comply
with the design standards stated herein:
a. Using the same background color on all signs or by using various
shades determined compatible by the City Planner. Use of compatible colors for the sign copy
shall be limited to three colors per sign.
b. Using visually consistent lettering, fonts, supports, and mounting
methods for signs.
C. Using the same form of illumination for all signs.
18. 52 ( 13) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
3. Deviations from the requirements of this chapter for individual signs may
be allowed through an approved CSP if the applicant establishes that the deviation is
aesthetically justified and will, through a unifying theme, integrate the sign with the building
architectural design and landscaping design. Content of the sign shall not be considered in the
review.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 27/ 00;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended, & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52.060 Regulations by Sign Type
All signs subject to this chapter shall be classified under one of the classifications in the
following table. In the event there is no classification applicable to a particular sign, it shall be
placed in that classification which it most closely resembles as determined by the City Planner.
18. 52 ( 14) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Table 18. 52.060A
Sign Types Matrix
Sign Type Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Height per Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of per Sign ( based Sign separate building Considerations (for the
Signs on Sign Area permits may be required, specific type of sign being
Permitted unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Address All zones Two (2) per 4 sq. ft. 8 in. ( Residential) None n/ a
Numbers unit.
12 in. ( Non- residential)
Animated Prohibited, except as allowed under Animated Window Electronic Sign
Animated O -P, C- 1, One ( 1) per 6 sq. ft. Sign shall not extend Sign Permit Animated signs are allowed as
Window C-2, C- 3, window beyond the height or Administrative part of the animated window
Electronic M- 1, and area or one width of a window on electronic sign. Flat screen
Business 1) per which it is placed. TVs and/ or computer monitors
Improvem establishme may be used under this sign
ent District nt, category. Signs must be
BID) whichever is placed on the inside of the
areas of less. window.
Downtown
Vista
Awning O -P, C- 1, One ( 1) per 12 sq. ft. Sign shall not project Sign Permit  Provide a minimum of 8 ft.
C-2, C- 3 main above the awning. Administrative clearance between bottom of
and M- 1 entrance to sign and sidewalk.
a building.
An Encroachment Permit shall
be required for awning that
projects into the public rightof-
way area.
Balloon Prohibited, except as allowed under Section 18. 52. 070. 8.2.
18. 52 ( 15) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type
18. 52( 16)
Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Height per Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of per Sign ( based Sign separate building Considerations (for the
Signs on Sign Area permits may be required, specific type of sign being
Permitted unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Banner See Section 18. 52. 070. 8. 1.
Billboards/ Prohibited. See Section 18. 52. 040. E for further information.
Off -premises
and off- site
signs
Blade or O -P, C- 1, C- 2, One ( 1) per tenant 12 sq. ft. for each Minimum of Sign Permit  Sign shall not project above
Projecting C- 3 with street and face of a double- 8 ft. vertical Administrative the roof edge, parapet wall, or
pedestrian faced sign clearance facade of the building to which
frontage). maximum of two from finished it is attached.
faces allowed). grade to
bottom of Sign shall not project outward
sign. from the face of the building
wall or facade and over the
public right- of-way more than
the distance specified below:
8 ft. vertical clearance = 1 ft.
maximum projection.
8 ft. to 16 ft vertical clearance
maximum projection of 1
plus 0. 5 ft. for each foot of
clearance in excess of 8 ft.
Over 16 ft. vertical clearance =
5 ft. maximum projection.
An Encroachment Permit shall
be required for a sign that
projects into the public riighhtt --
18. 52( 16) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type
Blinking or
Flashing
Permitted Maximum Maximum Size
Zones Number of per Sign ( based
Signs on Sign Area
Permitted unless
otherwise
specified)
Prohibited
Canopy O -P, C- 1, C- 2, Two (2) for each
C- 3, and M- 1 building entrance,
but not more than
two (2) per
building frontage
on any one street
One ( 1) of the two
2) signs must be
an under canopy
sign and the other
must be attached
to the front of the
canopy or parallel
to the building
facade.
Maximum Height per
Sign
Undercanopy
sign must be a
maximum of 4 sq
ft.
Canopy sign must
be a maximum of
one ( 1) sq. ft. of
sign area for each
lineal foot of
canopy front side
width. Such sign
shall not exceed
50 sq. ft. in area.
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Minimum of Sign Permit 
8 ft. vertical Administrative
clearance
from finished
grade to
bottom of
sign( s). If
vehicular
traffic is
permitted
below the
canopy, the
minimum
vertical
clearance
between
road surface
to bottom of
sign( s) shall
be 14 ft.
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
of -way area.
A canopy sign shall not
exceed two feet from its base
to the top of the sign copy.
An Encroachment Permit shall
be required for a canopy that
projects into the public rightof-
way area.
18. 52 ( 17) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Directional All zones Eight ( 8) per 4 sq. ft. 3. 5 ft. Sign Permit  n/ a
building site. ground Administrative
mounted);
Wall
mounted
signs shall
be placed at
a level where
they are
clearly visible
to the traffic
they are
intended to
control.
Suspended
signs shall
have a
minimum
clearance of
8 ft. for
pedestrian
traffic and 14
ft. for
vehicular
traffic.
18. 52 ( 18) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Drive- thru C- 1, C-2, C- 3, Two (2) per site 30 sq. ft. 6 ft. Sign Permit  Menu board and speakers
Services and M- 1 Administrative ( if replacing shall be oriented away from
Menu Board existing menu board only); residential uses and from the
public right- of-way. Instead,
OR these menu boards and
speakers shall be oriented for
Comprehensive Sign use by those in the drive- thru
Program to be submitted lane only.
with the Special Use Permit
if submittal of a new drivethru
project).
Electronic C- 3 One ( 1) per lot or For a single 20 ft. above Sign Permit  No animation, blinking or
Message building complex. building with at ground level Administrative flashing is allowed. Copy,
Board or least 80, 000 sq. images and/ or color changes
Digital Display ft. of gross floor only once every 24 hours
area, a maximum unless otherwise allowed
of 20 sq. ft. in through a Comprehensive
sign area to be Sign Program.
displayed on the
Sign shall not project above
exterior of the
the roof edge, parapet wall, or
building.
facade of the building to which
it is attached.
The style and proportions of
the electronic message board
sign must be compatible with
the scale of the building and
the character of the area.
18. 52 ( 19) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of Signs per Sign ( based Height per separate building Considerations (for the
Permitted on Sign Area Sign permits may be required, specific type of sign being
unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Flags All zones Two (2) per lot or Length of the Flag must be Sign Permit  n/ a
building complex. horizontal axis of attached to a Administrative
the flag shall be pole no
no greater than higher than
two times the 35 feet or the
length of the highest
vertical axis. legally
permitted
structure
existing on
the
premises,
whichever is
less.
Freeway- May only be One ( 1) pole sign 150 sq. ft. of sign 30 ft. above Sign Permit 
oriented Pole located on in a required area ground level Administrative
sites of new landscaped area, or 15 ft.
motor vehicles outside of the above
sales or hotels public right-of-way. freeway
within The proposed pole grade level,
Freeway- sign is not within whichever is
Oriented 150 feet of a greater (not
Districts (See neighboring sign to exceed 45
Maps 1 on either side so feet above
through 5). as to not obstruct ground level)
neighboring signs.
Halo -lit Signs Halo lighting permitted for blade/projecting and wall signs.
18. 52 ( 20) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Hand Held All commercial 6 sq. ft. measured None The sign( s) must be
Commercial zones one side only. personally worn or held by a
or Personally- The maximum person, or personally attended
Attended cumulative size of by one or more persons. The
Commercial a sign which is sign( s) must be displayed in
physically conformity with the hand held
controlled by two commercial sign display
or more persons standards set forth in section
acting in concert 18. 52. 080.
is twelve ( 12)
square feet,
measured one
side only.
Hand Held Allowed if the 6 sq. ft. measured None The sign( s) must be
Non- sign complies one side only. personally worn or held by a
commercial or with the person, or personally attended
Personally- provisions of The maximum by one or more persons
Attended this chapter cumulative size of
Non- and other a sign which is
commercial laws, including physically
without controlled by two
limitation, laws or more persons
designed to acting in concert
promote public is twelve ( 12)
safety and square feet,
access. measured one
side only.
18. 52 ( 21) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Housing A- 1, E- 1, R- 1, One ( 1) per public 32 sq. ft. of sign 6 ft. Sign Permit  Sign shall be placed in a
Complex R -1- B, and R- street frontage of a area Administrative landscaping area where one
M lot or building site, 1) sq. ft. of landscaped area
with no more than is required for every one ( 1)
two ( 2) per lot or sq. ft. of sign area.
building site.
Marquee See notes One ( 1) per lot 32 sq. ft. of sign 6 ft. if Sign Permit  Marquee signs shall be
under Other with a public street area. monument Administrative allowed only for uses such as
Special frontage. sign or pole theaters, churches, temples or
Considerations sign -general; other similar uses that require
interchangeable copy as part
OR of their normal/ daily
operations.
If attached to
a building,
sign shall not
project
abovethe
roof edge,
parapet wall,
or facade of
the building.
18. 52 ( 22) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of Signs per Sign ( based Height per separate building Considerations (for the
Permitted on Sign Area Sign permits may be required, specific type of sign being
unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Monument O -P, C- 1, C- 2, One ( 1) per public 60 sq. ft. of sign 6 ft. Sign Permit  Sign shall be placed in a
C- 3, and M- 1 street frontage of a area. Administrative landscaping area where one
lot or building site, 1) sq. ft. of landscaped area
with no more than is required for every one ( 1)
two ( 2) per lot or sq. ft. of sign area.
building site.
Project identification signs
may accommodate up to four
4) tenant panels per face.
Neon ( for C- 1, C-2 One ( 1) per 2 sq. ft. The sign Sign Permit Exposed neon lighting used
accent use building. shall not Administrative for accent as part of a sign is
only) project permitted and not considered
above the a neon sign.
building' s
roof edge,
parapet or
facade.
Neon All zones Two (2) per 2 sq. ft. n/ a None Permitted only within building
interior) establishment. interior to communicate static
message.
Noise Making Prohibited
or Audible
Signs, Except
for Drive- thru
Menu Boards
18. 52 ( 23) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of Signs per Sign ( based Height per separate building Considerations (for the
Permitted on Sign Area Sign permits may be required, specific type of sign being
unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Non -permitted Prohibited, see Section 18. 52. 100.
Excess
Signage
Pennants Prohibited, except as allowed under Section 18. 52. 070. 6.2.
Pole Prohibited, except for Freeway -Oriented Pole as identified in this table.
Pole Sign See Maps 1 One ( 1) per 150 sq. ft. of sign 30 ft. above Sign Permit  Project identification pole
Freeway- through 5  building complex; area ground level Administrative signs may accommodate up to
Oriented Freeway- or one ( 1) per lot or 15 ft. four (4) tenant panels per
oriented for lots that are not above face.
Districts for part of a building freeway
Sign may be supported by a
areas where complex. grade level,
single or multiple poles or
pole signs are whichever is
columns.
allowed. greater (not
to exceed 45 Sign must be placed in a
feet above required landscaped area,
ground outside of the public right -of -
level). way. The proposed pole sign
may not be within 150 feet of
a neighboring sign on either
side so as to not obstruct
neighboring signs.
18. 52 ( 24) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Pole Sign  O -P, C- 1, C- 2, One ( 1) per 64 sq. ft. 6 ft. Sign Permit  Project identification signs for
General C- 3, M- 1, A- 1, building complex; supported by two Administrative a building complex or
E- 1, R- 1, R- 1- or one ( 1) per lot or more poles or commercial center may
B and R -M. for lots that are not columns in the accommodate up to four (4)
part of a building ground ( O -P, C- 1, tenant panels per face.
complex. C- 2, C- 3, and M-
1) Sign must be supported by
32 sq. ft.
two or more poles or columns
supported by two
in the ground.
or more columns
or poles in the
ground ( A- 1, E- 1,
R- 1, R -1- B and
R -M).
Portable Allowed within An establishment 6 sq. ft. per side 3 ft. Sign Permit  Removable lettering shall be
the Designated can display only maximum 2 ft. in Administrative prohibited. Use of chalk or dry
BID Areas one portable sign width). erase board as sign area may
see Exhibit A) pursuant to the be allowed. Illuminated or
immediately in combined animated signs are prohibited.
front of the operation of this
advertised Section and To be displayed only during
establishment. Section 12. 20.060, regular business hours.
The intent is to provided that no
help create a more than two
pedestrian- portable signs can
oriented be displayed for
environment any one building.
and enhance
the overall
downtown
character.
18. 52 ( 25) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Produce A- 1, E- 1, R- 1, Two (2) per 6 sq. ft. n/ a Sign Permit  Sign( s) shall be securely
Stand and R -1- B. produce stand. Administrative affixed to a produce stand and
shall not be located on or
within any public right- of-way
or private road easement.
Sign( s) on produce stand shall
be displayed only during the
time period the produce is
available on the property on
which the sign is located.
Such sign( s) shall be removed
when such produce is no
longer available.
Sign( s) shall only advertise
produce available on the
property.
Project All zones One ( 1) on- site 6 sq. ft. 6 ft. ground- Approval by project Sign area background color:
Noticing  maximum 2 ft. mounted planner. yellow. Letters: capitalized
Project On- high by 3 ft. pole height. black letters.
Site Signs wide).
Applicant or developer
phrases or logos are not
allowed on the sign.
Damaged or removed notices
shall be replaced immediately
by the applicant or developer.
18. 52 ( 26) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Real Estate All zones One ( 1) per lot 6 sq. ft. 4 ft. None Sign may be displayed on
Sale Sign - private property only with
General owner's consent.
Sign may not be placed in the
public right- of-way or on any
publicly owned property.
Signs must be removed not
later than fifteen days after the
close of escrow or the rental
or lease of the property.
Flags, banners and pennants
may not be placed on the sign
or be attached to it.
Real Estate All zones One ( 1) per lot 24 sq. ft. for 6 ft. Sign Permit  Parcels lawfully displaying a
Sign - zoned for commercial and freestanding Administrative real estate sign - commercial,
Commercial commercial use, industrial zones; sign). may also display a real estate
industrial use, or otherwise, 12 sq. sign - general.
zoned for or ft. If located on Illumination is not allowed; it
developed with a a building, must be located on- site ( not
lawful multiple the sign shall allowed in the public right -of -
dwelling. not project way area); sign area of the
above the real estate sign shall not count
building' s towards total sign area
roof edge, permitted for the site.
parapet or All sale, lease, and rental
facade. signs shall be removed within
15 days from the date of sale,
lease or rental.
18. 52 ( 27) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Sign Permits Required Other Special
Zones Number of Signs per Sign ( based Height per separate building Considerations (for the
Permitted on Sign Area Sign permits may be required, specific type of sign being
unless to be determined at proposed)
otherwise submittal)
specified)
Residential A- 1, E- 1, R- 1, n/ a 4 sq. ft. of total 5 ft. None Illumination is not allowed; it
R -1- B, RM, sign area. freestanding must be located on- site ( not
and mixed- use sign) or 8 ft. allowed in the public right -of -
zones. if mounted way area).
on a building
wall. Signage allowance is for each
individual residential unit.
Roof Prohibited
Rotating Prohibited
Service C- 1, C-2, C- 3, Two (2) monument signs (maximum of n/ a Sign Permit  n/ a
Stations and M- 1 60 sq. ft. total sign area) OR one ( 1) Administrative
monument sign ( 30 sq. ft.) IF a pole
sign is allowed and approved ( See
Freeway -oriented Pole Signs in this
table).
Two (2) canopy signs ( maximum size
of 35 sq. ft. each). Sign( s) shall not
extend beyond or above the canopy
and shall be designed as an integral
part of the canopy structure.
One ( 1) pole sign in a required
landscaped area, outside of the public
right- of-way. The proposed pole sign
is not within 150 feet of a neighboring
sign on either side so as to not obstruct
neighboring signs (See Freeway -
oriented Pole Signs in this table).
Two (2) wall -mounted signs or logos
maximum of 15 sq. ft. per sign and not
projecting above the roof edge). Motor
fuel price indicators as authorized or
required by law.
18. 52 ( 28) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Temporary All zones n/ a 6 sq. ft. within the n/ a None Signs not allowed in roadway
Signs During public right -of- medians. Signs may be
Election way area. placed on property only if the
Periods owner, lessee, or other person
16 sq. ft. in areas exercising control of such
other than public property has given prior
right- of-way area. consent.
Signs shall not be placed or
affixed to any trees, utility
poles, traffic signs and
devices, or any publicly
maintained fixtures within any
public right- of-way or
easement areas dedicated to
the City, or in any manner that
presents a hazard or threat to
public safety as determined by
the City Engineer.
A sign shall not be erected,
installed, placed, or
maintained by any person
prior to 35 days preceding any
federal, state, or local election,
and shall be removed, or
caused to be removed, by the
person responsible for placing
or installing such sign, within 5
days following such election.
18. 52 ( 29) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Window O -P, C- 1, C- 2, Sign area ( s) shall Sign area shall Sign copy Sign Permit  n/ a
C- 3, and M- 1. not exceed 25% of not exceed 25% shall not Administrative
any single window of any single extend
area. window area. beyond the
However, when height or
multiple windows width of a
are located next window on
to each other and which it is
with no wall placed.
separation in
between them,
then 25% can be
based on the total
area of all
windows
combined
together as one.
18. 52 ( 30) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Sign Type Permitted
Zones
Maximum
Number of Signs
Permitted
Maximum Size
per Sign ( based
on Sign Area
unless
otherwise
specified)
Maximum
Height per
Sign
Sign Permits Required
separate building
permits may be required,
to be determined at
submittal)
Other Special
Considerations (for the
specific type of sign being
proposed)
Wall O -P, C- 1, C- 2, One ( 1) per One ( 1) sq. ft. of Sign shall Sign Permit Sign shall not project outward
C- 3, and M- 1. building frontage sign area or copy not project Administrative from the face of the building
on a public or area, whichever above the wall or facade and over the
private street or applies, for each roof edge, public right- of-way more than
parking lot. lineal foot of parapet wall, 6 inches. A vertical clearance
building frontage or facade of of 8 ft. shall be present to
on a public or the building accommodate this projection.
private street or to which it is
parking lot. Such attached. Cabinet signs shall not be
sign shall not allowed as part of new or
exceed 100 sq. ft. entirely rehabilitated
in area. commercial or industrial
centers.
When two ( 2) or more
establishments occupy one
building space with one
common entrance, they shall
be considered one
establishment for sign
computation purposes.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 1992-25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Repealed & Replaced, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2007- 25, Amended, 11/ 27/ 07;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended, 5/ 24/ 11; Ord. No. 2016- 5, Amended, 4/ 8/ 16; Ord. No. 2016- 5, Amended,
8/ 23/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2019- 5, Amended, 2/ 12/ 19)
18. 52 ( 31) ( Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Exhibit A BID Areas
d 25-. 3
T f`r
T G r
37
Via. + 1" WeY6Fh
1. - 4.
tio7 ShF
y8
yOT'
r. r,_
t;r`
N 1+0- LINCOLN
MIDDI- E SCM()+
3
3 4 zoo
t
v E i . i;15
Lf
1r
t ry r~ 9S5 t
q
S,.. ' v ', s ti1 165
Y".
an
i`E. OF
a.  A:TEft PARK
l
i' S}a F : J. FAS''
3
541
607 r1 v. y Ao 5
619
d' 1 S! n Y'} 9 ' C 3 '= 5
V,
Ry . i'" f. f'. i 612
16
J 
r1..
1 ,
F
4 Y4{ S#
4
v . ! rii
4.
xE" s
s' y
q+
r Fo h  may -
EAR MEVf
5`.
ri en; f AkuCC 6M
815
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT  r h
M 1 DISTRICT BOUNDARY MAP
y
ZONE A - 1, 5, 7
5
ZONE B .. 2, 3, 8, 9
4 ZONE C - 4, 15
jrs , Sq S.. 
m `` s iaiS iy'
6pj i^
5
Freeway -Oriented Districts for Pole Signs: Map 1
Disclaimer: This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or
0 250 500 1, 000 Feet
i
14,
TlberoVp
evoVIRaquel D
P
Bonita Dr
Disclaimer: This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or
0 250 500 1, 000 Feet
i
r j, m
y "
s`
VJ
VN,
suitable for legal, enoineerino, or survevino
purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information.
INII
C- 1
C- 2
Hacienda Specific Pla
g" 7 ,. v
l" '". ir i yew,
sem '- +'
r-:"'
r_
I
78
yOrf
v
i / C
w
i rN1
Freeway -Oriented Districts for Pole Signs: Map 0 250 500 1, 000 Feet
C-2 a
Hacienda Specific
Plan
purposes. of should review or consult primary and sources ascertain usability of i
MHP c' th
lI
q
ob i Aj
4 e
N
Disclaimer: This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering, or survevino Rev 12/20/2018
purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information.
Freeway -Oriented Districts for Pole Signs: Map 3 ; 250 500 1, 000 Feet
1
ore
Rd
R- 1 Na
U
p
f s
1 _. 
e =
10
R -M f__
4
f
t
F
Hill pr (` I J
SIYI7
C)
O  
J
T`
li
Rio oRiotP r,  r
pomelo
do
a
pauio G
aWyto A=
isclaimer: This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering, or survevino Rev 12/20/2018
purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information.
Freeway -Oriented Districts for Pole Signs: Map
1
C 1
C- 1
v
0 IED
C -A R
s- rl
E- 1
4 0- P
isclaimer. This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or be suitable for lea
e0 250 500 1, 000 Feet
Q
ts ,
enaineerina, or survevino
purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information.
78.
IED
s- rl
v
A
N
IN,
Rev 12/20/2018
Freeway -Oriented Districts for Pole Signs: Map 5 010 250 500 1, 000 Feet
V _
North County North County',
00,
Square t Square
Specific Plan Specific Plan
i t Sy !
F
z
a
r
s g' x
r
3
78 n
I.- 10/
R -M
t
a
C- 3 - r
C- 3
78 ,
Shadowridge
Dr ---
Specific Plan
l '
a C- 2 Y
a  C- 2
aisclaimer.
This product is for informational purposes and may not have been prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering, or survevino Rev 12/20/2018
purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability of the information.
Section 18. 52.070 Temporary Signs
A. Temporary On- Site Signs for Projects that are Under Construction ( New
Construction Only)
One temporary on- site sign satisfying the requirements of this section is allowed during
new construction of a residential project with more than ten units, a commercial project, or an
industrial project. The sign shall be consisted of one single or double-faced freestanding sign to
be placed on the construction site. The sign shall have a maximum area of 96 square feet ( per
face) and maximum height of 15 feet above ground.
For all other projects during new construction, one on- site single-faced freestanding sign
will be allowed on the construction site and it shall not exceed eight feet in width and eight feet
in height. All such signs shall be removed upon granting of final occupancy by the City.
B. Temporary On- Site Signs
Permitted zones: All non- residential zones and residential zones with legally established
commercial, institutional, or industrial type uses.
1. Banners. Banners may be displayed on- site for a limited period of time in
accordance with the following:
a. Approval of a Temporary On- site Banner Sign Permit by the City
Planner or designee.
b. Banner sign area shall not exceed 1. 5 square feet for each lineal
foot of building or tenant frontage on a public street. A banner shall not exceed 100 square feet
and need not be less than 25 square feet in area. The banner shall only be attached to a
permanent and legally permitted building on the site.
C. Only one banner per building or tenant space is permitted to be
displayed at any one time. Banners shall be non- illuminated and shall not be used to advertise
goods and services which are not available on- site.
d. An applicant may obtain approval of no more than four temporary
on- site banner sign applications in a calendar year. No permit for a temporary on- site banner
sign shall exceed 16 consecutive days, except that a new establishment may display a
temporary on- site banner sign for up to 30 consecutive days if the display commences within 60
days of the opening of the establishment. A period of at least 90 days must separate each such
permit, measured from the first date the sign may be displayed under the permit. For purposes
of this section, an establishment is deemed to have opened on the date it obtained or was
required by law to obtain a business license from the City of Vista. Message content of the sign
shall not be a factor in consideration of the application.
e. An applicant may request an additional application approval and
extended display time for banners intended to communicate that establishments are open
during construction or remodeling. Display of this type of banner may commence upon
issuance of a building or grading permit and may continue until such time as all final inspections
of the site have been completed.
f. Approval procedure. The party deemed responsible for the sign
shall submit written application for the display of the sign to the City Planner and obtain a
Temporary On- site Banner Sign Permit. The written application shall include the following
information and any other information deemed necessary to issue the permit:
i. Name, address and telephone number of the responsible
party.
ii. Address of the property at which the sign will be displayed.
iii. Location of the sign on the building. ( For example,
centered on north wall, approximately one foot below top of parapet)
iv. Landlord or Property Manager approval for the sign, if
applicable.
18. 52 (38) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
V. Inclusive dates of the display.
vi. Description of the sign, including size, materials and
content/copy.
g. Fee. A permit fee, in an amount set by resolution or ordinance of
the City Council, shall be submitted and included as part of the application for the Temporary
On- site Banner Sign Permit.
2. Special signage provisions for lots where an automobile sales dealership
is the primary use. Temporary on- site signage is permitted on lots on which the primary use is
an automobile sales dealership in accordance with the following:
a. An application for a Comprehensive Sign Program ( CSP) shall be
submitted on a yearly basis; it may be submitted in combination with other application( s), or as a
stand- alone application.
b. The application shall be in a form consistent with Section
18. 52. 060, with such modification as may be approved by the City Planner. The application
shall describe the proposed temporary signage program, including the following information:
i. Proposed locations, sizes, materials of all proposed
signage, which may include any signs permitted by the Vista Development Code as well as
balloons, pennants and banners.
ii. Proposed dates of display and the duration of each display
period with a maximum of four display periods during a calendar year and a maximum of 15
consecutive days within each display period.
C. The CSP shall be processed in the same manner as a CSP
pursuant to Section 18. 52. 050. L. Content of the signage shall not be a factor in consideration of
the application.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Repealed &
Replaced, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52.080 Hand Held Commercial Sign Display Standards
All hand held commercial signs or personally attended commercial signs shall comply
with the following standards which shall be known as the hand held commercial sign display
standards:
A. The signs must be displayed only during the time period of sunrise to sunset; and
B. Signs may have no more than two display faces, may not be inflated, airactivated,
illuminated, project any sharp edges or points, emit smoke or fumes or sounds, pose
a fire hazard or other threat to public health safety and welfare, and may not be used to obstruct
or impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic; and
C. A person may not have an object for purpose of sitting down while holding or
personally attending the sign.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000-5, Repealed &
Replaced, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. 2011- 3, Deleted &
Replaced, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52.090 Mobile Billboards - Prohibited
A. The purpose of this section is to eliminate mobile billboard advertising within the
city in order to promote the safe movement of vehicular traffic, to reduce traffic congestion on
public roads, to reduce air pollution, and to improve the aesthetic appearance of the city.
B. It is unlawful to place a mobile billboard on any private property for the primary
purpose of causing the mobile billboard to be visible to persons using any freeway, street or
other public place within the City."
18. 52 (39) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
C. This section shall not apply to any vehicle which displays an advertisement or
business identification of its owner, so long as such vehicle is engaged in the usual business or
regular work of the owner, and not used merely, mainly or primarily to display advertisements.
Prior Code Appendix 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Repealed &
Replaced, 06/ 27/00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. 2011- 3, Amended
5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52. 100 Non- Permitted Excess Signage - Prohibited
A. Signs located on a parked or stationary vehicle, as defined in the Vehicle Code,
are prohibited when: ( 1) the vehicle is located on property, other than City property, constituting
a street or parking lot that is available for public use; and ( 2) operation of the vehicle cannot
occur lawfully on public streets with the sign or display in place.
B. This section seeks to assure that businesses, establishments, and uses do not
circumvent the purposes of this code by installing, locating or utilizing signage and displays
which exceed the quantities, types and allowed locations for such signage. Additionally, this
section is intended to avoid visual clutter, distractions for motorists, and degradation to the
aesthetics of the community and its efforts to promote high quality and well- planned
commercial, industrial and residential districts.
C. This section does not apply to non- permitted excess signage placed on vehicles
located on City property, which instead, is subject to and prohibited by Vista Municipal Code
Section 123. 20. 120.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 27/ 00;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52. 110 Permit Procedures
A. Permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, limited liability
company, corporation or entity to authorize, erect, re- erect, display, use, construct, maintain,
move, alter, change, place, suspend or attach any sign within the city without first obtaining a
written sign permit to do so and paying the fees prescribed therefore, unless the particular sign
is expressly exempted from permit requirements by a provision of this chapter. A separate sign
permit shall be required for a sign or signs for each business entity or establishment. An issued
permit shall be valid only for the particular sign covered by the permit and only for locating the
sign in the specific place allowed by such permit. Issuance of a sign permit does not excuse or
relieve the recipient from the obligation to secure building or similar permits for the sign prior to
commencing construction or installation. A sign permit shall not be required solely for the
purpose of changing copy, repainting or cleaning an existing sign, unless a structural change is
made or the copy change would conflict with an approved CSP. The rights and duties in a
permit for a permanent sign attach to and travel with the land, not the sign owner, sponsor, or
permittee.
B. Application for permit. Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon
forms provided by the City Planner and shall include the following information:
1. Name, address and telephone number of the business owner or
establishment, building owner, and sign contractor.
2. Location by street number and legal description ( tract, block, lot) of the
building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the sign is to be installed or affixed.
3. Evidence of ownership or landowner's consent, such as a letter of
authorization or signature on sign plans.
4. Site Plan ( drawn to scale) of property showing use, location of proposed
signs and buildings, length of building frontage where sign is to be located, parking areas,
18. 52 (40) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
landscaping, walls or fences, property lines, right- of-way, streets and sidewalks. A drawing to
scale showing the design of the sign, including dimensions, sign size, method of attachment,
source of illumination, and showing the relationship to any building or structure to which it is, or
is proposed to be, installed or affixed, or to which it relates.
5. Colored pictures showing final sign product layout.
6. The maximum and minimum heights of the sign( s).
7. Number, size and location of all existing signs on the same building, lot or
premises.
No permit shall be issued for any sign or sign structure unless it complies with all
applicable provisions of this chapter. Where there is a conflict between the provisions of this
chapter and other applicable regulations, the more restrictive shall apply.
C. Findings required for approval. No sign application shall be approved unless and
until the following findings are made by the City Planner:
1. The proposed sign( s) is ( are) consistent with the design criteria of Section
18. 52. 050.
2. The proposed sign(s) conform( s) to all requirements of Section
18. 52. 050, Table 18. 52.060A, applicable design standards, any applicable Comprehensive Sign
Program, any requirements of the General Plan, and otherwise complies will all applicable laws
and regulations, including those set forth in this chapter.
D. Fees. All signs require a sign permit fee and plan- checking/ inspection fee that
shall be paid in accordance with the schedule established by resolution of the City Council.
E. Time for Decision. Unless the applicant waives time, the City will render a
written decision on all sign permit applications within 30 calendar days of when the application is
complete. If such decision is not timely rendered, then the application is deemed denied.
However, when signage is part of an application for development approval ( or other zoning
processes), then this provision does not apply.
F. Status quo. During the time a sign permit application is under review, the status
quo shall be maintained at the sign location.
G. Appeals. The decision on any sign permit application may be appealed in
accordance with Vista Development Code Section 18. 04. 150. At each stage of internal appeal
and review, the status quo shall be maintained pending the decision.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 25/ 00;
Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52. 120 Signs Not Requiring a Sign Permit
A. The following signs shall not require a sign permit.
1. Signs required by law. Signs that are required to be erected or posted by
federal or state government or by the City of Vista.
2. Temporary signs. Temporary signs that conform to the standards set
forth in this chapter, except temporary on- site signs regulated by Section 18. 52. 070.
3. Project noticing on- site signs. Public notice signs required by the City as
part of processing discretionary permits.
4. Signs, not exceeding two square feet which are posted to warn, such as
danger high voltage," or " beware of dog."
B. Owner' s consent required for display. No sign may be displayed on real or
tangible personal property without the consent of the legal owner of the property on which the
sign is mounted or displayed. For purposes of this policy, "owner" means the holder of the legal
title to the property and all parties and persons holding a present right to possession, control or
use of the property
18. 52 (41) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
C. Obligation to comply with other laws. Although an owner may be authorized to
erect a sign without first securing a permit under this chapter, the owner remains obligated to
erect and maintain the sign in accordance with all requirements of this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
Ord. No. 92- 25, Enacted, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2007-25, Amended,
11/ 27/07; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended &
Renumbered, 5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52. 130 Enforcement
A. Authority. The City Manager or designee ( hereinafter referred to as " Officer") is
hereby authorized to enforce all provisions of this chapter.
B. Right of entry. When necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or when the Officer has reasonable cause to believe that there exists
any sign or any condition which makes such sign unsafe, the Officer may enter the premises or
building upon which such sign is located at all reasonable times to inspect the sign or to perform
any duty imposed upon the Officer by this chapter; provided that he/she shall first present
proper credentials and demand entry; and if such building premises is unoccupied, he/ she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of
the building or premises and demand entry. If entry is refused, or the Officer is unable to
otherwise obtain the consent of the owner or occupant, the Officer shall immediately proceed to
obtain an inspection warrant or other remedy as provided by law. In the absence of an
emergency, the Officer shall not remove an illegal, abandoned or nonconforming sign unless
directed to do so by resolution of the City Council to abate such illegal, abandoned or
nonconforming sign, or as provided in this chapter.
C. Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, limited liability company or
corporation to erect, display, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert or
demolish, equip, use or maintain any sign or sign structure in this jurisdiction, or cause or permit
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Except
that previously existing non- conforming signs shall be permitted to be maintained pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter. The City shall proceed in its discretion against any person, firm,
limited liability company or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter in
accordance with the provisions of any applicable law or ordinance, including without limitation,
Sections 1. 12. 030, 1. 3. 130, 1. 16. 010, and 1. 16. 020 of the Vista Municipal Code. Each such
person, firm, limited liability company or corporation is guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violations of any of the provisions of this chapter
is committed, continued or permitted.
D. Public nuisance. Any sign maintained, used or permitted contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, including the maintenance of an illegal or discontinued sign, shall
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated by the City by any means allowable under the
law.
E. Responsibility. As used in this chapter, " person( s) deemed responsible" shall
mean any or all of the following:
1. The person or entity who owns the real property upon which the sign
exists.
2. The occupant of any premises upon which the sign exists.
3. The owner or user of the sign.
4. The person or entity who erects, places, or alters the sign.
Prior Code Appendix A 1803; Ord. No. 92- 25, Renumbered, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Amended,
06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
18. 52 (42) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Section 18. 52. 140 Discontinued and Illegal Signs - Nuisance
A. Intent of provisions. This section is intended to encourage the display of signs
within the City that satisfy the requirements of this chapter by eliminating discontinued and
illegal signs in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Assuring that existing signs, over
time, comply with the provisions of this chapter is as important as prohibiting new signs that
violate this chapter.
B. Illegal and discontinued signs.
1. Any illegal or discontinued sign located within the city is declared to be a
public nuisance.
2. Partial exception for historical signs. Historical signs which were
constructed lawfully will not be classified as an illegal sign due to a nonconformity with the
requirements of this chapter if the City Council determines that the sign is historically significant
and makes the following findings:
a. The historical significance of the sign for the community outweighs
the non- conformity status of such sign.
b. The sign neither creates nor causes a traffic hazard.
C. The sign does not degrade the aesthetic quality of the community.
d. The sign is properly maintained and structurally sound.
e. The sign does not adversely affect adjacent properties.
For purposes of this section, the City Council makes the above findings
with respect to the two existing historical marquee signs located in the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 1804; Ord. No. 92- 25, Amended, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000-5, Repealed &
Replaced, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended and Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10; Ord. No. 2011- 3, Amended,
5/ 24/ 11)
Section 18. 52. 150 Legal Nonconforming Signs and Abatement Process
In addition to and without limiting the remedies allowed by Section 18. 52. 120 and
18. 52. 130, illegal and discontinued signs may be abated and removed by the City using any one
or more of the following:
A. Signs subject to Chapter 2, Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code
also known as the Outdoor Advertising Act) may be removed pursuant to the provisions
thereof. Nonconforming off-premises signs located within residential areas or agricultural areas
within the incorporated boundaries of the city are now illegal, having been fully amortized as of
11/ 17/ 99 pursuant to Ordinance Number 92- 25 and Business and Professions Code Sections
5412. 1 and 5412. 2, respectively.
B. Signs subject to Chapter 2. 5 and Chapter 2. 6, Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code (" on- premises advertising displays") may be removed pursuant to the
provisions thereof. All nonconforming on- premises advertising displays are deemed to have a
useful life of 15 years from the effective date of the ordinance creating the nonconformity.
C. All other legal nonconforming signs are deemed to have a useful life of 15 years
from the effective date of the ordinance creating the nonconformity and may be abated
thereafter using the procedure described in Chapter 2. 6, Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code or any other procedure allowed by law.
D. In addition to and as an alternative to the abatement methods set forth in this
section, any sign qualifying as a nuisance, including any illegal sign or any discontinued sign as
defined in this chapter, may be removed, without payment to the owner, pursuant to the
nuisance abatement procedures set forth in Chapter 8. 36 of this Code or pursuant to any
nuisance abatement procedures that may be available under the California Government Code
18. 52 (43) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
or other California statues.
Ord. No. 92- 25, Enacted, 11/ 17/ 92; Ord. No. 2000- 5, Repealed & Replaced, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16,
Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
Section 18. 52. 160 Severability
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter. The Council hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter,
and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional, and if for any reason this chapter should be declared invalid or
unconstitutional, then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.
Ord. No. 2000- 5, Added, 06/ 27/ 00; Ord. No. 2010- 16, Amended & Renumbered, 9/ 28/ 10)
18. 52 (44) Vista 3/ 15/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 54
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
Sections:
18. 54.010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 54.020 Facilities Required When - Application of Provisions
18. 54.030 Exemptions from Provisions
18. 54.040 Floor Area Defined
18. 54.050 Number of Parking Spaces Required
18. 54.060 Changed or Converted Uses
18. 54.070 Loading Space Requirements
18. 54.080 Bicycle Parking/ Storage Requirements
18. 54.090 Motorcycle Parking Requirements
18. 54. 100 One-Family and Two-Family Dwellings
18. 54. 110 Determining Parking Space Requirements for Mixed Uses
18. 54. 120 Development Standards
18. 54. 130 Reciprocal Parking Facilities
18. 54. 140 Modification of Certain Off-Street Parking Requirements by Special or
Minor Use Permit
18. 54. 150 Parking Standards for Industrial Developments
18. 54. 160 General Parking Lot Modification
18. 54. 170 Commercial Vehicles
18. 54. 180 Illumination Requirements
18. 54. 190 Parking Enforcement - Statutory Authority
Section 18.54.010 Purpose of Provisions
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to ensure that all premises shall have the
minimum required off-street motor vehicle parking facilities installed and maintained in a manner
which will ensure adequate and safe storage, ingress and egress, and at the same time require
parking facility design which will provide for safe and convenient use of such facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 1900)
Section 18.54.020 Facilities Required When - Application of Provisions
A. Subject to the provisions of Section 18. 54.030, parking spaces and areas,
loading spaces, and other facilities required by the provisions of this chapter shall be provided
for each of the following:
1. The erection, re- erection, construction or reconstruction of any building or
structure hereinafter specified;
2. Alteration, enlargement or conversion to a different use of any building,
structure, lot or building site, hereinafter specified; or
3. Change of use of a lot or building site which requires a greater number of
parking or loading spaces than was provided before such change.
B. In the event any building, structure, lot or building site comes within the scope of
this section, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to those buildings, structures and uses
which were in existence before the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section.
C. All improvements required by this chapter or any predecessor of this chapter
shall henceforth be made available and maintained for the use for which they were designed.
Every lot or building site, or portion thereof, used as a public or private parking area, including
18. 54 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
commercial parking, automobile sales or rentals, equipment sales or rental, mobile home sales
or rental, and other open air sales or rental lots, shall be improved, paved and maintained in
accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter and the Uniform Building Code as
adopted by the City.
D. The requirements of this chapter shall apply to temporary as well as permanent
uses.
Prior Code Appendix A 1901)
Section 18.54.030 Exemptions from Provisions
A. Exemptions from the provisions of this chapter include:
1. Any nonresidential building or structure existing on April 1, 1976, which is
altered in a manner which:
a. Does not increase the floor area thereof by more than 200 square
feet,
b. Does not increase the assessed value thereof by more than 50%
as determined by the County Assessor, and
C. Does not change the use thereof to one requiring a greater
number of parking spaces pursuant to this chapter;
2. Any residential building or structure existing on April 1, 1976, which is
altered in a manner which:
a. Does not increase the number of dwelling units or guestrooms
thereof, and
b. Does not prevent the use of any existing required on- site parking
space or area.
B. If an existing required garage or carport is enclosed and made a part of the
dwelling unit, an equivalent parking facility shall be provided elsewhere on the same lot or
building site.
Editor's Note: Ord. No. 1991- 15 has two temporary exemptions for parking in multi- family units.
Prior Code Appendix 1902; Ord. No. 1991- 15, Amended, 06/ 25/ 91)
Section 18. 54.040 Floor Area Defined
As used in this chapter:
Gross floor area" means all floor area within the confines of all exterior walls.
Net floor area" means gross floor area, less the floor area of all hallways, equipment
storage facilities and mechanical equipment rooms.
Prior Code Appendix A 1903)
Section 18.54.050 Number of Parking Spaces Required
The number of parking spaces required for the following uses shall be as set forth in this
section. Any resulting fraction shall be rounded up to the next successive whole number ( see
also Subsection 18. 54. 050.A).
18. 54 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Automobile
Commercial and Retail Land Uses Parking Bicycle Parking
1
Adult Entertainment Facilities
12. 5
1 bicycle space for
4, 000 GFA) 1 every 20 auto spaces
2 Auto Sales with Service Department 0.5
1 bicycle space for
every 20 auto spaces
3 Auto Sales without Service Department 0. 33
1 bicycle space for
every 20 auto spaces
4
Banks, Credit Union, Savings and Loan,
4.6
1 bicycle space for
and Thrift Institutions every 20 auto spaces
5 Building Complex 5.0
1 bicycle space for
every 20 auto spaces
6 Neighborhood Center 4.0
1 bicycle space for
every 20 auto spaces
Community and Regional Centers 1 bicycle space for
Greater than 10% of GFA Dedicated 5.0 every 20 auto spaces
7 to Restaurant
Less than 10% of GFA Dedicated to 1 bicycle space for
Restaurant
4.0
every 20 auto spaces
8 Food Markets 5.0
1 bicycle space for
every 20 auto spaces
9
Food Services, Take- Out (Max Seating 5.0
1 bicycle space for
Area 15% of GFA) every 20 auto spaces
Furniture, Hardware and Household
2
1 bicycle space for
10
Appliance Store
0
every 20 auto spaces
Restaurant, Barstand and Other
11
Establishments For the Sale and
12. 5
1 bicycle space for
Consumption of Food and Beverages on every 20 auto spaces
the Premisesl
12
Other Retail Sales and Service 1 bicycle space for
Establishments (< 5,000 GFA)2
5.0 every 20 auto spaces
Refer to
13 Automobile Service Stations Section
18. 62. 070(J)
1 auto parking per 80 sf gfa for up to 4, 000 sf, plus 1 per 100 sf for facilities over 4, 000 sf.
21 auto space for each 200 sf afar up to 5, 000 sf plus 1 for each 150 sf afar over 5,000 sf.
18. 54 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on Dwelling Units, Unless Noted Otherwise
Residential Land Uses Automobile Parking Bicycle Parking
14 Hotels, Clubs and 1. 0 1 bicycle space for
Boardinghouses Room) every 20 auto
spaces
15 Motels 1. 1 2. 0
Room) If Resident 1 bicycle space for
Manager's every 20 auto
Quarters spaces
Provided
16 Residential Hotel 1. 5 0.25 1 bicycle space for
Room) Guest) every 20 auto
spaces
17A Multiple- Family Dwelling 2. 0 0.33
Units ( Rental) Guest)
1 bicycle space for
every 5 auto
Studio spaces
1 Bedroom 2. 0 0.33
Guest)
1 bicycle space for
every 5 auto
spaces
2 Bedroom 2. 0 0.50 1 bicycle space for
Guest) every 5 auto
spaces
3+ Bedroom 2. 50 0.50 1 bicycle space for
Guest) every 5 auto
spaces
17B Multiple- Family Dwelling 2. 0 0.33
Units (Attached for Sale) Guest)
1 bicycle space for
every 5 auto
Studio
spaces
1 Bedroom 2. 0 0.33 1 bicycle space for
Guest) every 5 auto
spaces
2 Bedroom 2. 0 0.50 1 bicycle space for
Guest) every 5 auto
spaces
3+ Bedroom 2. 5 0.50 1 bicycle space for
Guest) every 5 auto
spaces
18 Detached Condominium 2. 0 2. 0
Housing Unitsl Guest) N/ A
19 One- Family Dwellings2 2. 0 2. 0 N/ A
Guest)
18. 54 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on Dwelling Units, Unless Noted Otherwise
Semi- Rural 2. 0 2. 5 ( Guest) N/ A
Subdivisions3
2 enclosed spaces in a garage, covered or garage space, plus 2 guest parking spaces.
22 covered and enclosed spaces in a garage for each dwelling unit, plus 2 open guest parking spaces. Guest spaces may be located in the driveway
provided it is not shared with other units.
Same as one-family dwellings plus,. 5 open guest parking space for each residential unit proposed as part of a tentative map subdivision. To the extent
feasible, additional off-sheet parking shall be provided in the form of parking pockets( minimum 9 feet wide with parking spaces either parallel to the
centerline of the street or perpendicular to the centerline of the street). Diagonal parking may be accepted as an alternative form of meeting the offstreet
parking standard.
18. 54 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Office and Professional Land Uses
Automobile
Bicycle Parking
Parking
20 General Business Offices ( Unless 3. 8 1 bicycle space
Otherwise Specified Herein) for
every 20 auto
spaces
21 Medical and Dental Offices 4. 5 1 bicycle space
for
every 20 auto
spaces
22 Other Professional Offices1 5. 0 1 bicycle space
for
every 20 auto
spaces
I auto parking for each 200 sf gfa, up to 5,000 sf, plus 1 for each 250 sf gfa over 5,000 sf.
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Industrial Land Uses Automobile
Parking Bicycle Parking
1 bicycle space for
23 General Manufacturing) 1. 33 every 20 auto
spaces
1 bicycle space for
24 Research and Development2 3. 33 every 20 auto
spaces
25 Warehouse and Wholesale
1 bicycle space for
1. 0 every 20 auto Establishments3
spaces
I auto parking for each 750 sf gfa, plus those that may be required for other uses( e.g., office, retail).
21 auto parking for each 300 sf gfa, plus those that may be required for other uses( e.g., office, retail).
31 auto parking for each 1, 000 sf gfa( up to 20,000 sf) plus 1 for each 2,000 sf of gfa( for the next 20,000 sf), plus 1 for
each 4, 000 sf of gfa in excess of the initial 40,000 sf plus spaces that may be required for other uses( e.g., office,
retail).
18. 54 ( 6) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Institutional Land Uses Automobile Parking Bicycle Parking
26 Nursing Homes, Homes 5. 0 1 bicycle space for every
for Children, the Aged, ( 1, 000 sf of Patient Living 20 auto spaces
Incapacitated and Area)
Sanitariums
27 High Schools, Colleges 27 or Parking Study* 1 bicycle space for
and Universities1 every 20 auto spaces
3. 03 or Parking Study* 1 bicycle space for
28 Day Care Centers and every 20 auto spaces
Nursery Schools
Parking Study Required* 1 bicycle space for
29 Hospitals every 20 auto spaces
1. 5 6. 0 1 bicycle space for
30 Elementary Schools Classroom) every 20 auto spaces
1. 5 12. 0 1 bicycle space for
31 Junior High Schools Classroom) every 20 auto spaces
LL
I for each 20 sf net floor area in lecture area and classrooms, plus 1 for each 200 sf net floor area in faculty and staff office space, plus 1 for
each 300 sf net floor area in laboratory and maintenance facilities.
Assumption used: 500 sf lecture area, 200 sf faculty and staff office space, 300 sf laboratory and maintenance facilities.
Parking demand for these land uses could vary significantly, a parking study is recommended, to provide the right number of spaces, per City
staff's discretion.
Based on per seat (fixed or non- fixed) ratio, Unless Noted Otherwise
Public Assembly Land Uses Automobile Parking Bicycle Parking
32 Churches, Mortuaries and
1 bicycle space for
Funeral Homes
0.33 every 20 auto
spaces
33 Lodges and Union Halls
1 bicycle space for
without Sleeping Quarters
0.33 every 20 auto
spaces
34 Theaters, Auditoriums and
1 bicycle space for
Stadiums
0.2 every 20 auto
spaces
18. 54 ( 7) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Public Facilities Automobile Parking Bicycle Parking
1. 25 bicycle space
35 Amusement
25. 0 or Parking Study*
for
Centers every 20 auto
spaces
36 Athletic and Health
1 bicycle space for
Clubs
7. 0 every 20 auto
spaces
5. 0
1 bicycle space for
37 Bowling Alleys
Per Bowling Alley or Lane) every 20 auto
spaces
0.25
1 bicycle space for
38 Dance Hallsl
Per Seat)
every 20 auto
spaces
1 bicycle space for
39 Golf Courses
10. 0 every 20 auto
Per Hole) spaces
1 auto parking for each 4 fixed seats, plus 1 for each 40 sf of seating or assembly area without fixed seats, plus 1 for
each 35 sf dance floor.
Parking demand forthese land uses could vary significantly, a parking study is recommended, to provide the right
numberof spaces, per City staff's discretion.
18. 54 ( 8) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Based on 1, 000 SF GFA, Unless Noted Otherwise
Other Land Uses Automobile Parking Bicycle Parking
40 Contractor's Storage or 0. 5 1 bicycle space
Equipment Yard for
every 20 auto
spaces
41 Recreational Vehicle 0.2 1 bicycle space
Storage Yard for
every 20 auto
spaces
42 Car-Wash ( Not Self-Service) 10. 0 ( Total Spaces) 1 bicycle space
for
every 20 auto
spaces
43 Car-Wash ( Self-Service) 1. 5 ( Per Washing Bay) 1 bicycle space
for
every 20 auto
spaces
44 Lumberyards) 3. 0 1 bicycle space
for
every 20 auto
spaces
45 Self-Storage Units 3. 0+ 0. 2 ( Per 1, 000 SF) 1 bicycle space
for
or Parking Study* every 20 auto
spaces
1 for each 500 sf of retail sales floor area, plus 1 for each 2, 000 sf of storage yard area including storage buildings.
Parking demand for this land use may vary significantly; a parking study is recommended to provide the right number of
spaces, per City staff's discretion.
18. 54 ( 9) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
A. LAND USES NOT SPECIFIED: The parking requirement for uses, not specifically
listed in this section, shall be determined by the approval body for the proposed use on the
basis of requirement for similar land uses. Traffic engineering and other planning data that are
appropriate to the establishment of a minimum parking requirement may also be used. This
criteria is intended to supplement the procedure set forth in Section 18. 58. 030 ( clarification of
use and regulation).
B. GENERAL PROVISIONS:
1. Modification of Parking Standards.
a. Variances. A variance may be granted from the requirements of
this section in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18.74 of this code.
b. Special Use Permits. Any land use subject to the granting of a
special use permit may have its parking requirements modified as an express condition of such
a permit.
C. Site Development Plan. Any land use or plot plan subject to the
approval of a site development plan may have its parking requirements modified as an express
condition of the approval of such a plan by the Planning Commission at a public hearing.
d. Specific Plans. A project subject to a specific plan may have its
parking requirements modified as a specific standard of the plan.
e. School facilities that include ancillary facilities for public assembly
such as gymnasium, sports arenas or stadiums, will provide additional parking spaces for such
facilities in the amount of one space for each five seats or 25 square feet of seating area,
whichever results in the greater number of parking spaces. Such additional parking may be
permanent, or may be temporary; e. g. athletic fields or other on- site open areas suitable for
parking on a temporary basis. This parking may also be provided with a reciprocal parking
agreement(s) with nearby property in conformance with the provisions of Section 18. 54. 130.
f. Bank, other financial institutions and retail commercial activities
providing drive-through services for their clients or customers may be permitted to reduce the
number of required off-street parking spaces by one for each four stacking spaces provided in
drive-through service lanes. A " stacking space" shall be defined as an unobstructed space in
a drive-through lane measuring not less than ten feet by 18 feet, intended as a motor vehicle
waiting space.
g. The number of required parking spaces in a parking facility
serving more than one commercial land use shall be determined in accordance with Section
18. 54. 110 hereof.
h. Building complexes or shopping centers permitting restaurants,
theaters, physical fitness centers ( health clubs), and other establishments for the sale and
consumption of food and beverages on the premises, or other group assembly activities, shall
limit such activities to not more than 33 percent of the gross floor area of such complex without
providing additional off-street parking. Should such complexes ( facilities) wish to exceed the
specified limitation on floor area, additional on- site parking shall be provided at the same ratio of
parking spaces to floor area as would be required if the activity( ies) were in a separate facility as
specified herein. Any eating/ dining establishment with less than 15 percent of the gross floor
area of a complex may be computed as other retail sales, or as may be appropriate for a
shopping center or building complex.
i. Parking spaces in a Multiple- Family Residential ( RM) zone,
covered or open, shall not be rented or leased separately from a residential unit(s):
1) One covered, or covered and enclosed ( garage) parking
space shall be specifically assigned to each dwelling unit.
2) All other open parking spaces shall be available, on an
equal basis, for use by any residential unit resident or visitor. ( NOTE: This standard shall only
18. 54 ( 10) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
be applicable to those developments constructed prior to June 25, 1991.)
3) One additional open, and/ or covered ( carport or garage),
parking space shall be specifically assigned to each dwelling unit for use by the resident or his
visitor for those units containing more than two bedrooms. ( NOTE: This standard shall only be
applicable to those developments constructed after June 25, 1991.)
4) The remaining open parking spaces shall be made
available for resident or guest parking on an equal basis.
5) Deviations from these requirements may be permitted by
the Planning Commission subject to their approval of a site development plan or a special use
permit at a noticed public hearing. However, in no case shall a reduction of guest parking of
more than 50% be permitted.
Prior Code Appendix A 1904; Ord. No. 1991- 15, Amended, 06/ 25/ 91; Ord. No. 1997-6, Amended,
2/ 25/ 97; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07; Ord. No. 2016-20, Amended, 1/ 13/ 17; Ord. No. 2020- 1,
Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18.54.060 Changed or Converted Uses
Any portion of any lot, building or building site providing off-street parking may be
altered, changed or converted for any other purposes if the required number of parking spaces
is first provided elsewhere in full compliance with this chapter. Unless the driveway serving the
old facility is used as the driveway for the new parking facility, it shall be removed and the curb
shall be closed at the expense of the property owner.
Prior Code Appendix A 1905)
Section 18.54.070 Loading Space Requirements
A. Office, Commercial and Industrial Uses. All office, commercial and industrial
uses shall be provided with not less than one loading space for each lot or building site, plus
one additional loading space for each additional 20,000 square feet of gross floor area in excess
of 10, 000 square feet of gross floor area.
B. Such loading spaces shall conform to the following standards:
1. Office Uses. At least ten feet by 20 feet in size;
2. Light Commercial ( 2, 000 Square Feet Gross Floor Area or Less). 12 feet
by 25 feet in size;
3. Heavy Commercial ( Over 2, 000 Square Feet Gross Floor Area). 12 feet
by 45 feet in size;
4. Industrial. 12 feet by 45 feet in size; and
5. Location. All loading areas shall be located so that safe, unobstructed
and continuous access thereto is provided, and vehicles are not permitted to protrude into or
obstruct any public right-of-way.
B. Multiple Dwellings. All multiple dwelling uses shall be provided with not less than
one loading space for each 25 required parking spaces, but in no case shall less than one such
space be provided. Such loading spaces shall be not less than ten feet by 20 feet in size, and
be located to allow for use thereof by residents for loading and unloading purposes.
C. Modification of Requirements. When the proposed use is to utilize a public alley,
private easement or driveway for loading, unloading and service entrance purposes, the
Director of Planning may decrease the requirements set forth in this section if he finds that such
utilization will not obstruct, block or prevent one-way vehicular passage in the alley, easement
or driveway, and the modified requirements will be sufficient for the loading and unloading
necessities of the proposed use.
Prior Code Appendix A 1906)
18. 54 ( 11) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.54.080 Bicycle Parking/ Storage Requirements
A. Any facility or activity/use established in any zoning district other than residential
zones or areas within specific plans designated for residential uses shall provide bicycle
parking/ storage spaces at the ratio of one such space for each 20 automobile spaces. This
ratio shall be increased to one bicycle parking/ storage space for each ten vehicle parking
spaces required for non- residential portions of mixed use developments, including any parking
spaces shared by the residential and non- residential uses.
B. Multi-family residential uses shall provide bicycle storage spaces at a ratio of one
such space for each five dwelling units which do not have a private garage. This requirement
shall apply to developments in multi- family zones, areas of specific plans designated for multifamily
residential uses, and residential portions of mixed use developments.
A. Bicycle parking/ storage spaces required by subsection A above may be racks
or storage lockers that provide the user with a means to adequately secure a bicycle, and
shall be placed in a location that permits easy surveillance by law enforcement and/or
security personnel. Bicycle storage spaces required by subsection B above shall be fully
enclosed individual storage lockers, or shall be within an enclosed structure provided with
security cameras and having access limited to only those persons living in the development.
Prior Code Appendix A 1906. 1; Ord. 2015- 2, Amended, 1/ 27/ 15)
Section 18. 54.090 Motorcycle Parking Requirements
For all projects having greater than 100 parking spaces, one space per hundred may be
reduced in size to accommodate motorcycles. The space shall have a minimum width of five
feet and depth of eight feet and shall have direct access to a driveway and be marked
Motorcycle Parking."
Prior Code Appendix A 1906.2)
Section 18.54. 100 One-Family and Two- Family Dwellings
Paved parking spaces shall be located on the same lot or building site as the use they
are required to serve. Open parking spaces may be located anywhere on the lot or building site
where a main or accessory building is permitted. Except, they shall not be located in a required
front-yard or other required setback from a public or private street except as allowed by the
Development or Municipal Codes.
Prior Code Appendix A 1907; Ord. No. 1997- 3, Amended, 1/ 28/ 97)
Section 18.54. 110 Determining Parking Space Requirements for Mixed Uses
In the event that there is more than one use on a lot or building site, the total number of
required parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements for the individual uses computed
separately. Parking spaces for one use shall not be considered as providing required parking
spaces for any other use, except as provided in Sections 18. 54. 130 or 18. 54. 140.
In the case of a lot or building site zoned Mixed- Use ( MU), the total number of required
parking spaces for the lot or building site shall be as stated in Chapter 18. 35 of the Vista
Development Code (MU Mixed Use Zone).
Prior Code Appendix A 1908; Ord. No. 2016-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 16)
Section 18.54. 120 Development Standards
Any facility ( multi- family residence( s), professional, commercial or industrial) where
18. 54 ( 12) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
parking is provided for residents, clients or customers, guest or employees shall conform with
the standards and guidelines set forth herein as they apply to the development of off-street
parking. " Accessible Parking" as it is used in this section refers to " Parking for Physically
Disabled Persons."
A. Parking Spaces and Circulation.
1. Dimensions.
a. Parking spaces and circulation aisles shall have minimum
unobstructed dimensions determined in accordance with the parking angle of the parking
spaces utilized, as set forth in Table 18. 54. 120.A, unless otherwise specified.
b. The parking space envelope shall not be less than nine ( 9) feet by
nineteen ( 19) feet in size. Open parking spaces shall be marked, using two 4 inch strips
separated by 10 inches, for a total width of 18 inches, and joined by a semi- circular arc at the
incoming end so as to form an elongated " U" with all markings to be continuous, as depicted in
Figure 18. 54.210.A.
2. Marking. All required open parking spaces shall be clearly delineated on
the surface of the parking area with paint or other easily distinguished material as illustrated by
Figure 18. 54.210 (A), unless otherwise specified.
3. On-Site Circulation Requirements. Vehicle aisles shall be designed to
ensure that movement of motor vehicles from one vehicle aisle to another does not require
leaving the lot or building site upon which the parking spaces are located, and no cross-traffic
shall be permitted through parking spaces. No parking space shall be situated in such a
location that a backward movement across any public right-of-way is required for exiting a
parking space.
4. Private Driveways. Private driveway width, slope and paving standards
shall conform with the provisions of Chapter 16. 57 of this code.
5. Transverse Slope. The transverse slope, or cross- fall of individual
parking stalls shall not exceed five percent, with the exception of accessible parking spaces
which shall not exceed 2. 083 percent.
18. 54 ( 13) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
TABLE 18. 54. 120.A
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
DRIVEWAY SIDEWALK DRIVEWAY
AREA
CAPE
LANDSCAPE LANDSCAPE
AREA AREA
E 4)
SEE NOTE 4) SEE NOTE 4)
I h1
a'
d a ea per c - 2 ro s
U) O
C:
U
d
a
e f h
g
k
g
h
M
O
O
C
N
N
Cn
a b C d e f 9 g1 h h1 k
PROJECTED PROJECTED MINIMUM
PARKING BAY PARKING BAY
PARKING STALL
STALL
STALL
STALL DRIVEWAY
SINGLE SQ. FT. DOUBLE SQ. FT. STALL
ANGLE WIDTH
WIDTH
LENGTH
LENGTH WIDTH
LOADED PER CAR LOADED PER CAR INTERLOCK
DRIVEWAY DRIVEWAY
ONE- TWOWAY
WAY
0 9'- 0" 23'-0" 12'- 0" 24'-0" 21'- 0" 483 30'- 0" 345
30 9'- 0" 18'- 0" 19'-0" 17'- 3 1/ 2" 12'- 0" 24'-0" 29'-4" 308. 2 46'- 11" 244 T-9 1/ 2"
45 9'- 0" 12'- 8 3/4" 19'-0" 19'- 9 1/ 2" 14'- 0" 24'-0" 34'- 2 1/ 2" 355. 5 54'- 0" 280. 6 6-4 1/ 4"
60 9'- 0" 10'- 4 3/4" 19'-0" 20'- 11 1/ 2" 18'- 0" 24'-0" 38'- 11 1/ 2" 404. 8 59'- 11" 311. 3 4'- 6"
90 9'- 0" 19'- 0" 24'- 0" 24'-0" 43'- 0" 387 62'- 0" 279
1. PARKING STALLS PLACED AT 90 TO THE TRAFFIC AISLES OR DRIVEWAYS WHICH ABUT A WALL OR CURB MORE THAN 8" IN HEIGHT ON ONE
SIDE SHALL BE INCREASED IN STALL WIDTH TO 10'- 0".
2. THE WIDTH OF TRAFFIC AISLES OR DRIVEWAYS SERVING GARAGES OR COVERED PARKING STALLS SEPARATED BY WALLS, SUPPORTING
COLOUMNS, OR OTHER ARC'HITEC'TURAL FEATURES SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN 32'- 0" WHEN MEASURED BETWEEN THE NEAREST VERTICAL
WALLS, SUPPORTING COLOUMNS, OR OTHER ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE GREATER THAN 8" IN HEIGHT.
3. DRIVEWAYS WHICH ARE DESIGNED TO CARRY TWO-WAY VEHICULAR TRAFFIC SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN 24'- 0" IN WIGHT AT ANY GIVEN POINT.
4. SEE CHAPTER 18. 56 OF THE VISTA DEVELOPMENT CODE FOR LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS IN PARKING AREAS.
18. 54 ( 14) Vista 2/ 14/20)
C)
4
5
2
2
LL
ILL)
7 f U)
CD#.
i/ 2
2/
LU
o
2 f
2M < LU
ILL 0 E O
3
2
S CL
6  o
2
0
7 2 2
s c < @
e m 7
LJJZC/)
ofOr O
D - 2_
CD 2
k
0 ECL
O EL
C)
CL)
j m aa @ea
k<
s
jj
oeo
Vista Municipal Code
6. Vehicle Barriers.
a. All parking spaces located at the outside border of a parking area
and not separated by a fence or wall from any abutting property line, street or alley, shall be
provided with securely installed and maintained wheel- stops of concrete ( PCC). Said wheelstops
shall be not less than six inches in height and four feet in length, located not less than 2. 5
feet from such property line.
b. Where continuous concrete curbs ( not less than six inches in
height) are provided as a barrier or divider between a paved area and a landscaped area, the
wheel stops required by Subsection A above may be omitted.
C. The wheel stops shall be omitted or marked if the City Planner
finds that the omission or marking will ensure pedestrian safety.
7. Screening and Permitted Parking Areas. Parking areas shall be located
and screened so that parked motor vehicle( s) present the least possible exposure to public
view. This may be done by providing landscape screening, by placing the parking areas at the
rear of buildings or behind architectural features, or by utilizing natural topography or planned
grading to create parking areas which are below or above adjacent street and property grades.
Specific parking screening requirements are as follows:
a. In detached single-family residential zoning districts, the parking
or storage of any motor vehicle, as defined in the California Vehicle Code ("CVC'), Sections 362
House Car), 415 ( Motor Vehicle) and 670 ( Vehicle), or any camp trailer, camper or trailer as
defined in Sections 242 ( Camp Trailer), 243 ( Camper) and 630 ( Trailer), 635 ( Trailer Coach) or
any camper shell or boat, or any vehicle parts or vehicle related equipment on any lot is
permitted only in the following areas:
1) When screened from public view by a solid fence or wall
not less than six feet in height;
2) In a parking area approved by the City as part of a
development approval process;
3) On the portion of the lot or parcel that is behind a line
which extends from the portion of the main structure nearest the front property line to the side
lot lines, which is parallel to the front property line, and which does not abut a public or private
street;
4) The parking of operable motor vehicles, as defined by CVC
Sections 465, 630, 242, 362, or 471 ( Pickup Truck) is permitted where otherwise not allowed by
this section, upon a paved driveway ( not more than 24 feet in width) connecting a carport or
garage with a public or private street. For the purposes of this section, " paved" driveway shall
mean a pavement section of not less than four inches of P. C. C. ( Portland Cement Concrete) on
native soil, or two inches of A. C. ( Asphaltic Concrete) over six inches of D. G. ( Decomposed
Granite), or as determined by Section 16. 57. 090.D of the Vista Development Code.
b. Every parking area abutting property located in an A, E, R or O
zoning district or abutting property designated (SP) shall be blocked from view from such
property by a concrete block or masonry wall with ornamental features, not less than six feet in
height measured from the grade of the finished surface of such parking area closest to the
abutting A, E, R, O, or (SP) zoned or designated property, provided that, if such parking area is
below, but less than six-feet below the elevation of the abutting A, E, R, O, or ( SP) zoned or
designated property, at the common property line, such wall shall be not less than six feet in
height from the existing grade of the abutting property at such line; and provided further, that
within any required front yard or side street side yard, or within ten feet of any alley- line, such
wall shall not exceed a height of three feet.
C. Every parking area in a multi- family residential or O- P zone which
is so located that it abuts a required yard abutting a street shall be blocked from view from the
18. 54 ( 16) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
public right-of-way by a concrete block or masonry wall with ornamental features, not less than
42 inches in height at the rear line of the required yard.
d. Exemptions to Divisions b and c above of this subsection are:
1) No such wall need be provided wherever the elevation of
that portion of the parking area abutting property located in the A, E, R, or O zones are abutting
property designated ( SP), or is six feet or more below the elevation of the abutting property at
the common property line.
2) No such wall need be provided along a side property line
when the side yard is used for access to a parking area if the abutting property is in the same
zone, provided a landscaping area at least five feet in width is installed abutting the property line
in- lieu thereof. Such a landscaped area shall be planted with trees and shrubs of a size, and in
such a manner, that they will provide a screening effect in conformance with the provisions of
this section.
B. Accessible Parking Required. Accessible Parking ( formerly known as
handicapped or disabled) shall conform with the California Code of Regulations, Title 24, State
Building Code (" SBC'), Chapters 31 and 71 ( portions of which are included herein), and such
other standards as may be set forth herein. Chapters 31 and 71 of the SBC should be
consulted for a more complete listing of the standards for parking and site development, as they
relate to "Accessibility." Where there is a conflict between said code sections and this section,
the more restrictive shall take precedence.
1. General. Each lot or parking structure where parking is provided for the
public as residents ( of multi- family housing) clients, guest or employees, shall provide
accessible parking as required by this subsection. Accessible parking spaces serving a
particular building shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel from adjacent
parking to an accessible entrance. In parking facilities that do not serve a particular building,
accessible parking shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible
pedestrian entrance of the parking facility. In buildings with multiple accessible entrances with
adjacent parking, accessible parking spaces shall be dispersed and located closest to the
accessible entrances. Table No. 18. 54. 120. 13 establishes the number of accessible parking
spaces required.
TABLE 18. 54. 120. 13 -- SPACED REQUIRED
The following table establishes the number of accessible parking spaces required.
Total Number of Parking Spaces In Minimum Number of Accessible
Lot or Garage Parking Spaces Required*
1 - 25 1
26 - 50 2
51 - 75 3
76 - 100 4
101 - 150 5
151 - 200 6
201 - 300 7
301 - 400 8
401 - 500 9
501 - 1, 000 2 percent of total
1, 001 and over 20 plus 1 for each 100, or fraction
thereof over 1, 001
See Subsections 2 and 3. a & b below.
18. 54 ( 17) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Less than five parking spaces. When less than five parking spaces are
provided at buildings and facilities subject to these regulations, one shall be 14 feet wide and
lined to provide a nine foot wide parking area and five foot wide loading and unloading area.
However, there is no requirement that the space be reserved exclusively or identified for use by
persons with disabilities only.
3. Parking Space Size. Accessible parking spaces shall be located as near
as practical to a primary entrance and shall be sized as follows:
a. Where single spaces are provided, they shall be 14 feet wide and
outlined to provide a nine foot wide parking area and a five foot wide loading and unloading
access aisle on the passenger side of the vehicle. When more than one space is provided inlieu
of providing a 14 foot wide space for each parking space, two spaces can be provided
within a 23 foot wide area lined to provide a nine foot wide parking area on each side of a five
foot wide loading and unloading access aisle in the center. The minimum length of each
parking space shall be 19 feet. See Figure No. 18. 54. 120. 13
b. One in every six accessible spaces, but not less than one, shall be
served by an access aisle eight feet wide minimum, and shall be designated van accessible as
required by Section 18. 54. 120. B. 8. b. All such spaces may be grouped on one level of a parking
structure.
4. Medical care outpatient facilities. At facilities providing medical care and
other services for persons with mobility impairments, parking spaces complying with this section
shall be provided in accordance with Table 18. 54. 120. 13, except as follows:
a. Outpatient units and facilities: ten percent of the total number of
parking spaces provided serving each such outpatient unit or facility.
b. Units and facilities that specialize in treatment or services for
persons with mobility impairments: 20 percent of the total number of parking spaces provided
serving each unit or facility.
18. 54 ( 18) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
FIGURE 18.54. 120.6
ACCESSIBLE PARKING DIMENSIONS AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
4" WIDE STRIPING w12
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
TYP. 1ST COAT TO BE
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT
TO BE BLUE
POST MOUNTED SIGN WHEN CURB FACE
NO WALL OR COLUMN IS
F' WIDE IAGONA
AVAILABLE FOR MOUNTING. BLOC E WHITE SEE 1IPIt803A AND SIPK803A
STRIPING
CROSS SLO
4" WIDE STRIPING" 2
CROSS SLOPES @ ACCES S.
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
@ACCESSIBLE
MAX. 1: AN`
TYP. 1ST COATTO BE
1: 48
DIRE N
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT
TO BE WHITE
IN ANY DIRECTION
0
CE ro
4'. WIDE STRIPING,, 2 EQ. EQ.
COATS OF TRAFFIC FAINT.
TYP. 1 ST COAT TO BE 12" GH STENCILED
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT WHITE LETTERS Ate'
TO BE BLUE PER r6C 118502.3
SAECEC DDEETTAAIILL 91SAYGM- 8B0O1L KING
IGN
12. 0"
@VAN ACCESSIBLE SPACES ACEs AISLE
TYPICAL ACCESSIBLE VAN STALL STRIPING DETAIL
4" WIDE STRIPING w2
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
TYP. 1ST COAT TO BE
OFF FINITE, 2ND COAT
TO BE BLUE
POST MOUNTED SIGN WHEN CURB FACE
NO WALL OR COLUMN IS
AVAILABLE FOR MOUNTING.
4" WIDE DIAGO NA
SEE IIPK803A AND 61PK803A
BLE OR WHITE
STRIPING
CROSS SLOPES
CROSS SLO
4' WIDE STRIPING,,/ 2 @ ACCES LS.
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
@ACCESSIBLE
MAX. IAN
TYP. 1ST COAT TO BE
STALLS. MAX. 1: 48
DIR N
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT
IN ANY DIRECTION
TO BE WHITE
W
4" WIDE STRIPING W/ 2:
EQ. L EQ.
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
TYP. ISTCOATTOBE
12" HIGH S NCILED
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT
WHITE LET EP.S AO+
TO BE BLUE PER CBC 1 TBv02.3. 3
ACCESSIBLE SYMBOL
SEE DETAIL 01r RKI NG ACCESS AISLE MAY B
EITHER SIDE OF IGN
sSrTANDARO ACCESS I LE
9._0"
STALL
@ ACCESSIBLE SPACES Acess AISLE
TYPICAL ACCESSIBLE STALL STRIPING DETAIL
18. 54 ( 19) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code)
FIGURE 18.54. 120.6
ACCESSIBLE PARKING DIMENSIONS AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
TRUNCATED DOMES PAD WHERE
PATH OF TRAVEL ADJOINS A
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC WAV.
4'- 0" MIN.
CURB RAMP( PARALLEL OR PERPENDICULAR) p
AS PERCITY STANOAROS SLOPE SLOPE
AND CBC SEC. 116. 406 1: 12MAX- 1 12 MAX.
POST MOUNTED SIGN
IS
F
N 0 CUR E CURB FACE
NO WALL OR COLUMN AVAILABLE FOP. MOUNTING.
WHEEL STOP
4" DE DIAGONAL-
4'" WIDE STRIPING, u2
BLUE OR WHITE
COATS OF TRAFFIC PAINT.
STRIPING CROSS SLOPES
TVP. 1 ST COAT TO BE
Os OFFS
@ACCESSIBLE FOFF
WHITE, 2ND coin
SS AILS.
STALLS. MAX. Loa Z( D
TO BE WHITE
N , AN
IN ANY DIRECTION
W
o
Q
4" WIDE STRIPING, NrI EQ. EQ. f~4
COATS OF TRAFFIC FAINT.
12" HIGH STENCILED 3
TVP. 1ST COAT TO BE
OFF WHITE, 2ND COAT
WHITE LETTERS
TO BE BLUE
PER CBC 11 B502.3. 3
ACCESSIBLE SYMBOL
SEE DETAIL f ACCESS AISLE MAY B
ON EITHER SIDE OF
STANDARD ACCESSI LE
g_0" 5=0" 9'- 0'
STALL
12'- 0"' @VAN ACESS AISLE
ACCESSIBLE SPACES
ALIGN
ACCESSIBLE STALL STRIPING DETAIL
TRUNCATED DOMES PADWHERE
PATH OF TRAVEL ADJOINS A
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC WAV.
CURB RAMP( PARALLEL OR PERPENDICULAR) u o
PEDESTRIAN ROUTE
AS PER CITY STANDARDS SLOPE
c`O SLOPE
AND CBC SEC. 11 B. 406 1: 12 MAX 1: 12 MAX.
SIDEWALK OR PLANTED AREA
GE
E E aF P NT f GU y J
S 11 O,
E
JAN j\
NG o l!L\i '
e
0
P P S NPJP\V \
NOG P\
N
Q\
P E SC' ORae y0
S p
FSOaS wO
OQ' aRo C'
5
Ao, G d`P, G
A\
OE
OFGOp
N
GOa
AV p\C\
O
@ p) Yy p\PG
coP s
v v sa C'
d?
CmQP\NS_ EC3
GQ'
OS Ra\N' 0.
SR\
P\FF\COE 0j , Z\oN
a
vosoF
ocDP gyp.
EG
gyp.
ss
aov TVp
QEQ
0
P AES
g0
d
veSe' 0 5 E
ANGLED ACCESSIBLE STALL STRIPING DETAIL
18. 54 ( 20) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
5. Arrangement of parking space( s). In each parking area, a bumper or curb
stop shall be provided and located to prevent encroachment of cars over the required width of
walkways. Also, the space shall be so located that persons with disabilities are not compelled
to wheel or walk behind parked cars other than their own. Pedestrian walkways which are
accessible to persons with disabilities shall be provided from each parking space to related
facilities, including curb cuts or ramps as needed. Ramps shall not encroach into any parking
space.
EXCEPTIONS:
a. Ramps located at the front of accessible parking spaces may
encroach into the length of such spaces when such encroachment does not limit the capability
of a person with a disability to leave or enter a vehicle, thus providing equivalent facilitation.
See Figure No. 18. 54. 120. B.
b. Where the enforcing agency determines that compliance with any
regulations of this subsection would create an unreasonable hardship, a variance or waiver may
be granted when equivalent facilitation is provided.
C. Parking spaces may be provided which would require a person
with a disability to wheel or walk behind other accessible parking spaces when the enforcing
agency determines that compliance with these regulations or providing equivalent facilitation
would create an unreasonable hardship.
6. Slope of parking space. Surface slopes of accessible parking spaces
shall be the minimum possible and shall not exceed '/ 4 inch per foot (2. 083 percent gradient) in
any direction.
7. Sidewalks/walkways and curb ramps. Sidewalks, walkways and curb
ramps shall be constructed where necessary to provide accessibility for persons with
disabilities. Said ramps shall conform with the standards and requirements set forth herein.
Additional information may be obtained from Chapters 31 and 71 of the SBC.
a. Sidewalks and/ or walkways. Sidewalks and walkways serving
accessible parking areas shall not be less than four feet in unobstructed width. No such
sidewalk or walkway shall exceed a slope of 1 vertical to 12 horizontal.
b. Width of curb ramps. Ramps shall be a minimum of four feet in
width and shall lie, generally, in a single sloped-plane, with a minimum of surface warping and
cross slope.
C. Slope of curb ramps. The slope of ramps shall not exceed 1
vertical to 12 horizontal. The slope of the fanned or flared ramps shall not exceed 1 vertical to 8
horizontal.
d. Level landing. A level landing four feet deep shall be provided at
the upper end of each ramp over its full width to permit safe egress from the ramp surface, or
the slope of the fanned or flared sides of the ramp shall not exceed 1 vertical to 12 horizontal.
e. Finish. The surface of each curb ramp shall be slip resistant and
shall be of contrasting finish from that of the adjacent sidewalk.
f. Directional grooves. The surface of each ramp located in the
center of a curb return shall be grooved parallel to the center line of crosswalks, typically in two
directions with
1/
4 inch by 1/ 4 inch grooves approximately 1% 2 inches on center.
g. Border. All curb ramps shall have a grooved border 12 inches
wide at the level surface of the sidewalk along the top and each side approximately % inch on
center. All curb ramps constructed between the face of the curb and the street shall have a
grooved border at the level surface of the sidewalk.
8. Identification of parking spaces for off-street parking facilities.
a. Each parking space reserved for persons with disabilities shall be
identified by a reflectorized sign permanently posted immediately adjacent to and visible from
each stall or space, consisting of a profile view of a wheelchair with occupant in white on a dark
18. 54 (21) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
blue background. The sign shall not be smaller than 70 square inches in area and, when in a
path of travel, shall be posted at a minimum height of 80 inches ( 6.67 ft.) from the bottom of the
sign to the parking space finished grade. Signs may also be centered on a wall at the interior
end of the parking space at a minimum height of three feet from the parking space finished
grade, ground or sidewalk.
b. Spaces complying with Section 18. 54. 120. B. 3. b shall have an
additional sign stating " Van-Accessible" mounted below the symbol of accessibility.
C. An additional sign( s) shall also be posted in a conspicuous place
at each entrance to off-street parking facilities, or immediately adjacent to and visible from each
stall or space. The sign shall not be less than 17 inches by 22 inches in size with lettering not
less than one- inch in height, which clearly and conspicuously states the following:
Unauthorized vehicles parked in designated accessible spaces not displaying
distinguished placards or license plates issued for persons with disabilities may be
towed away at owner's expense. Towed vehicles may be reclaimed at
or by telephoning Blank spaces are
to be filled in with appropriate information as a permanent part of the sign.
d. In addition to the above requirements, the surface of each
accessible parking space or stall shall have a surface identification duplicating either of the
following schemes.
1) By outlining or painting the stall or space in blue and
outlining on the ground in the stall or space in white or suitable contrasting color a profile view
depicting a wheelchair with occupant; or
2) By outlining a profile view of a wheelchair with occupant in
white on blue background. The profile view shall be located so that it is visible to a traffic
enforcement officer when a vehicle is properly parked in the space and shall be 36 inches high
by 36 inches wide.
9. Parking structures. All entrances to and vertical clearances within parking
structures shall have a minimum vertical clearance of eight feet two inches where required for
accessibility to accessible parking spaces.
10. Passenger drop-off and loading zones. When provided, passenger dropoff
and loading zones shall be located on an accessible route of travel.
a. General. Where provided, one passenger drop- off and loading
zone shall provide an access aisle at least five feet wide and 20 feet long adjacent and parallel
to the vehicle pull- up space. Such zone shall be located on surface with a slope not exceeding
one vertical in 50 horizontal. If there are curbs between the access aisle and the vehicle pull- up
space, a curb ramp shall be provided.
b. Vertical clearance. Provide minimum vertical clearance of 9 %2
feet at accessible loading zones and along at least one vehicle access route to such areas from
site entrances and exits.
C. Valet Parking. Valet parking facilities shall provide a passenger
loading zone complying with Subsection 1 above and shall be located on an accessible route to
the entrance of the facility. The parking space requirements of Section 18. 54. 120. D apply to
facilities with valet parking.
11. Variances. A variance from the provisions of Subsection 18. 54. 120. D
may be granted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 18. 74 of this code where
equivalent facilitation is provided.
18. 54 (22) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
12. Exceptions:
a. Where the enforcing agency determines that compliance with
18. 54. 120. 13 would create an unreasonable hardship, an exception may be granted when
equivalent facilitation is provided.
b. This section does not apply to existing buildings where the
enforcing agency determines that, due to legal or physical constraints, compliance with
regulations or equivalent facilitation would create an unreasonable hardship.
Prior Code Appendix A 1909; Ord. No. 1995- 13, Amended, 11/ 14/ 95; Ord. No. 1997- 3, Amended,
01/ 28/ 97; Ord. No. 2016-20, Amended, 12/ 13/ 16; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17; Ord. No. 2020-
1, Amended, 1/ 14/20)
Section 18. 54. 130 Reciprocal Parking Facilities
A. Definition. For the purpose of this section, " reciprocal parking facilities"
means a single parking facility utilized by two or more land uses which experience their most
intense periods of use or activity at different times during a 24 hour period or on different days of
the week or month.
B. Authorization. Subject to the conditions set forth in Subsection C of this section,
the Planning Commission may, upon application by the owner or lessee of any property,
authorize the reciprocal use of parking facilities provided to serve any other property or use, to
satisfy the requirements of this chapter with respect to the applicant' s property and uses
thereon, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
1. Up to 50 percent of the number of parking spaces required by this chapter
for a daytime use may be provided by the parking spaces provided for a nighttime or Sunday
use, and up to 50 percent of the number of parking spaces required by this chapter for a
nighttime or Sunday use may be provided by the parking spaces provided for a daytime use.
2. Up to 50 percent of the number of parking spaces required by this chapter
for a church or an auditorium incidental to a school may be provided by the parking spaces
provided for a daytime use.
3. The Planning Commission shall determine which uses are daytime uses
and which uses are nighttime uses on the basis of evidence of hours of operation and times of
the day when motor vehicle traffic requires parking spaces with respect to the various uses for
which joint use is requested.
C. Conditions Required for Reciprocal Use.
1. The building or use for which application is being made for permission to
utilize the parking spaces provided for another building or use shall be located within 150 feet of
such parking spaces, provided however, the Planning Commission or City Council upon appeal
by a four-fifths vote, may extend this distance under reasonable circumstances, provided that
they make the finding that the extended distance is consistent with the purpose of this section.
Under no conditions, shall the distance be extended more than 300 feet from the building or use
in question.
2. The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in the
principal operating hours of the buildings or uses for which the joint use of parking is proposed.
3. The applicant shall furnish a recordable instrument, approved by the City
Attorney, guaranteeing the use of such parking spaces for the benefit of the applicant' s property
and the uses thereon for the duration of any uses which require that such parking facilities be
provided. Upon the approval of the request for reciprocal parking by the Planning Commission
or City Council, such instrument shall be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder;
provided, however, the Planning Commission or City Council upon appeal by a four-fifths vote
may waive the requirement for recordation if it is found that such recordation is not necessary
and would be detrimental to the interest of the concerned parties and the City. The instrument
18. 54 (23) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
providing for the reciprocal parking shall state that it may be terminated only with the consent of
the City or, in addition, it shall provide that the owner of the property burdened by the reciprocal
parking requirement may terminate the reciprocal parking requirement by giving notice, in
writing, at least 60 days prior to the termination date, to the owner, as shown on the last
available county tax or assessment records, of the property benefiting from the reciprocal
parking and to the lessee or business operator of the benefited property, if known, and to the
City.
C. Joint Driveways. The joint use of abutting traversable driveways on abutting
properties is permitted to satisfy the driveway requirements of Section 18. 54. 120 if a recordable
instrument conveying right of joint use, stating that it is terminable only with the consent of the
City, approved by the City Attorney, is furnished and recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder. Such driveways are exempted from the requirements for a landscaped screening
area.
D. Appeal. An appeal to a decision of the Planning Commission granting, granting
subject to specified conditions, or denying a request for reciprocal parking may be filed with the
City Council ( Board of Appeals) in accordance with the provisions of Sections 18. 74. 180
through 18. 74.240. The City, in addition to those persons authorized to appeal by the
referenced sections, those property owners and/or business owners who may be directly
affected by the approval of a reciprocal parking request may appeal any such decision.
Prior Code Appendix A 1910)
Section 18.54. 140 Modification of Certain Off-Street Parking Requirements by Special
or Minor Use Permit
A. Use of common parking facilities.
1. For purposes of this section, " common parking facility" means a single
off-street parking facility which may be utilized by two or more commercial, businesses or
professional land use activities having the same, or closely related hours of operation or activity.
2. Where the total number of parking spaces required for each individual
use under the provisions of this chapter exceed 15 spaces, two or more commercial, business
or professional land use activities may comply with parking requirements of this chapter through
a common parking facility. A common parking facility may be approved upon application for,
and the granting of a special use permit pursuant to Chapter 18. 74 of this code. Where a
special use permit for a common parking facility is approved, the total number of combined
parking spaces required by this chapter for each included individual use may be reduced by up
to 15 percent of the total otherwise required.
B. Reserved parking spaces. The designation of reserved parking spaces within a
common parking facility required by the provisions of this chapter is specifically prohibited.
Prior Code Appendix A 1911; Ord. No. 1994- 12, Amended, 04/ 26/ 94)
Section 18. 54. 150 Parking Standards for Industrial Developments
A. Industrial developments employing more than 20 employees on the same shift
may utilize the following standards for parking space/ stall dimensions in the design and
development of required parking facilities. All other standards set forth in this chapter shall
remain applicable.
1. Not less than 15 percent of the required parking spaces shall be not less
than nine by 19 feet clear, including those designated for visitors only ( short-term) parking.
2. 60 percent of the required parking spaces shall be not less than eight and
one- half by 19 feet clear and shall be designated for employee only parking.
3. 25 percent of the required parking spaces shall be not less than eight and
18. 54 (24) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
one- half by 16%2 feet clear, for compact automobiles only, and shall be designated for
employees only.
B. Note: It may be desirable to reduce the traffic aisle width of compact parking
areas to 22 feet with 90 degree parking, or less, to deter larger vehicles from parking in the
spaces.
Prior Code Appendix A 1911. 6)
Section 18. 54. 160 General Parking Lot Modification
Prior Code Appendix A 1911. 7; Ord. No. 1994- 12, Repealed, 04/26/ 94)
Section 18.54. 170 Commercial Vehicles
In addition to the parking stalls required by the schedules set out in Section 18. 54.050
for owners, occupants, employers, customers or visitors of structures and uses requiring such,
one parking stall shall be provided for each commercial vehicle used in connection with the
operation of any structure or use. Parking stalls for such accessory vehicles shall be provided
within an open or enclosed parking facility on the same lot as the structure or use to which the
vehicles are accessory.
Prior Code Appendix A 1911. 8)
Section 18.54. 180 Illumination Requirements
A. Every lot or building site, or portion thereof, used as a public or private parking
area serving a commercial or public assembly use shall be illuminated during the hours of
operation of the use which occurs during darkness, as defined in Section 280 of the California
Vehicle Code, in such a manner that any point on the pavement surface in such area is
illuminated at not less than one footcandle.
B. Every lot or building site, or portion thereof, used as a parking area serving a
multiple dwelling, shall be illuminated during the hours of darkness, as so defined, in such a
manner that any point on the pavement surface in such area is illuminated at not less than 0.25
footcandle.
C. All lighting of parking areas shall be hooded and directed to reflect away from
adjoining properties.
Prior Code Appendix A 1912)
Section 18. 54. 190 Parking Enforcement - Statutory Authority
A. Every private road and parking facility in a private residential development,
shopping center and any other development jointly recommended by the Director of Planning
and Code Enforcement Supervisor which is approved by the Planning Commission and/ or City
Council shall be subject to the provisions of the California Vehicle Code and enforced by the
City in accordance with Sections 21107. 5, 21107. 6, 21107.8 and 21111 thereof.
B. Parking in spaces designated for disabled persons shall be subject to the
provisions of Sections 21107.8 and 22507.8 of the California Vehicle Code. Said sections
provide for the public enforcement of parking in such spaces without the enactment of an
ordinance or resolution regarding such.
18. 54 (25) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Where private roads and parking facilities are made subject to public parking and
traffic enforcement in accordance with the provisions of this section, it shall be the responsibility
of the property owner to comply with the applicable provisions of the California Vehicle Code
concerning the posting of a notice that such facility is subject to public traffic regulations and
control. Failure to comply with such requirement shall constitute a violation of the zoning
ordinance and be subject to the provisions of Chapter 18. 82.
Prior Code Appendix A 1913)
18. 54 (26) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 56
Water Efficient Landscaping
Sections:
18. 56.010 Purpose
18. 56. 020 Interests Served
18. 56.030 Findings
18. 56. 040 Definitions
18. 56.050 Applicability
18. 56.060 Exemptions
18. 56.070 Landscape Manual
18. 56. 080 Landscape Documentation Package; Processing and Approval
Requirements
18. 56. 090 Wastewater Prevention
18. 56. 100 City's Right to Inspect
18. 56. 110 Performance and Payment Guarantee
18. 56. 120 Fees
18. 56. 130 Compliance with the California Water Commission Model Ordinance
Section 18. 56.010 Purpose
The State Legislature determined in the Water Conservation in Landscaping Act of 2006
the " Act "), Government Code Sections 65591 et seq., that the state' s water resources are in
limited supply. The Legislature also recognized that while landscaping is essential to the quality
of life in California, landscape design, installation, maintenance and management must be water
efficient. The purpose of this chapter is to establish water use standards, which implement the
requirements of the Act in order to:
A. Promote the values and benefits of landscape practices that integrate and go
beyond the conservation and efficient use of water;
B. Establish a structure for planning, designing, installing, maintaining, and
managing water efficient landscapes;
C. Encourage the use, when available, of tertiary treated recycled /reclaimed water;
D. Use water efficiently and without waste by setting a Maximum Applied Water
Allowance ( MAWA) as an upper limit for water use and reduce water use for landscaping to the
lowest practical amount;
E. Encourage the modification of existing landscapes in order to reduce the amount
of water used for irrigation purposes. ( The City acknowledges that modification may require upfront
financial investment by property owners. However, this investment is intended to be
recovered over time due to the reduction in water use that leads directly to a reduction in cost
associated with that use.); and
F. Promote coordination among local jurisdictions and agencies relating to the
efficient use of water.
Prior Code Appendix A 2000; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56.020 Interests Served
This chapter seeks to advance the following goals without permitting a violation of any
other lawful ordinance or state law:
18. 56( l) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
A. Advance the goals and policies of the General Plan and Development Code;
B. Ensure that required landscaped areas are well integrated into the design of
development projects at the earliest possible developmental stage;
C. Promote sound design practices and ensure that landscaped areas within the city
will be maintained in a healthy and thriving condition;
D. Promote landscaping which will facilitate best management practices ( BMPs) for
storm water management in connection with new and established landscape areas;
E. Preserve water resources by requiring water conservation methods to be
implemented in the design, development, and maintenance of landscaped areas;
F. Provide the property owner, builder, or developer with as much latitude as
possible when designing, installing, and maintaining the required landscaping while still
adhering to applicable provisions of the Act;
G. Establish landscape design and development standards and suggest plant
materials appropriate to develop consistent and high quality landscaping throughout the city;
H. Prevent the loss of topsoil via erosion and subsequent siltation of streams,
channels, estuaries, or lagoons;
I. Require the use of drought tolerant plant materials and water efficient irrigation
methods in new development and encourage their use when replacing existing landscaped
areas; and
J. Encourage the recognition and retention of existing landform, topography, and
native vegetation in project design to the maximum extent possible.
Prior Code Appendix A 2000; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011)
Section 18. 56.030 Findings
Prior to the adoption of this ordinance, a report was prepared assessing the
conservation effects of the ordinance. Based on that report, and the evidence contained
therein, the City Council, in adopting this ordinance, has determined and found that the water
conservation that would be achieved through the adoption of this ordinance was at least
equivalent to the conservation that would be achieved through the adoption of the model
ordinance developed by the Department of Water Resources.
Prior Code Appendix A 2000; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011)
Section 18. 56.040 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms, words, and phrases used in this chapter
and in the landscape manual, shall be defined as follows:
Applied water" means the portion of water supplied by the irrigation system to the
landscape.
Automatic irrigation controller" means an automatic timing device used to remotely
control valves that operate an irrigation system. The controller(s) shall schedule irrigation
events using either evapotranspiration ( ETo) ( weather- based) or moisture sensor data.
Backfill" means soil which is replaced in a hole after excavation and placement of
irrigation lines and /or plant materials.
Backflow Prevention Device" means a safety device used to prevent pollution or
contamination of the water supply due to the reverse flow of water from the irrigation system.
Building permit" means a permit to engage in a certain type of construction on a
specific location.
18. 56( 2) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Certificate of completion of landscape installation" means a letter prepared by the
project landscape architect certifying that he /she has observed the installation of the irrigation
and planting and that it has been installed per the approved landscape construction plans.
Certified Landscape Irrigation Auditor" means a person certified to perform
landscape irrigation audits by an accredited academic institution, a professional trade
organization or other program such as the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency' s Watersense
irrigation auditor certification program and Irrigation Association' s Certified Landscape Irrigation
Auditor program.
Check Valve" or " Anti -drain valve" means a valve located under a sprinkler head, or
other location in the irrigation system, to hold water in the system to prevent drainage from
sprinkler heads when the sprinkler is off.
Compost" means the safe and stable product of controlled biologic decomposition of
organic materials that is beneficial to plant growth.
Conceptual landscape plans /documents" mean rendered plans graphically
identifying, by symbol or call -out, the quantity and location of plant species and hardscape areas
proposed for a project site.
Conversion Factor (0.62)" means the number that converts acre - inches per acre per
year to gallons per square foot per year.
Cool season grasses" mean turf that remains green in the winter months. Cool
season grasses include, among others, annual bluegrass, Kentucky bluegrass, perennial
ryegrass, red fescue, and tall fescue.
Covered project" means a project described in Section 18. 56.050, excluding those
projects listed in Section 18. 56. 060.
Director" has the meaning set forth in Chapter 18. 02 of the Vista Development Code.
Discretionary permit" means any permit requiring a decision making body to exercise
judgment prior to its approval, conditional approval or denial.
Distribution Uniformity" means the measure of the uniformity of irrigation water over
a defined area.
Drip Irrigation" means any non -spray low volume irrigation system utilizing emission
devices with a flow rate measured in gallons per hour. Low volume irrigation systems are
specifically designed to apply small volumes of water slowly at or near the root zone of plants.
Ecological restoration project" means a project where the site is intentionally altered
to establish a defined, indigenous, historic ecosystem.
Enhanced paving" means brushed or stamped concrete, pavers, stone, and other
decorative flat, solid surfaces intended for vehicular and /or pedestrian traffic.
Erosion" has the meaning set forth in Section 17. 56.040 of the Vista Development
Code.
Erosion control plan" has the meaning set forth in Section 17. 56.040 of the Vista
Development Code.
Established landscape" means the
developed significant root growth into the site.
or two years. Native habitat mitigation area
point at which plants in the landscape have
Typically, most plants are established after one
and trees may need three to five years for
establishment.
Estimated total water use ( ETWU)" means the estimated total water use in gallons
per year for a landscaped area.
ET adjustment factor ( ETAF)" means a factor of 0. 55 for residential areas and 0.45
for non - residential areas that, when applied to reference evapotranspiration, adjusts for plant
factors and irrigation efficiency, two major influences upon the amount of water that needs to be
applied to the landscape.
Evapotranspiration or reference transpiration ( ETo)" means a standard
measurement of environmental parameters that affect the water use of plants. ETo is given in
18. 56( 3) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
inches per day, month, or year and is an estimate of the evapotranspiration of a large field of
four inches to seven inches tall, cool season turf that is well watered. Reference
evapotranspiration is used as the basis of determining the MAWA so that regional difference in
climate can be accommodated.
Final approval of landscape installation" means an acknowledgment or certification
of the City Planner that he or she has received a certificate of completion of landscape
installation and has determined that the landscaping has been installed and properly maintained
for a period of one year as required by Section 18. 56. 170.
Final inspection submittal" means information and documentation which must be
provided to the City Planner prior to a final inspection of project landscaping. Specific items to
be included as part of the submittal are identified in Section 18. 56.080.
Flow Sensor" means an inline device installed at the supply point of the irrigation
system that produces a repeatable signal proportional to flow rate. Flow sensors must be
connected to an automatic irrigation controller, or flow monitor capable of receiving flow signals
and operating master valves. This combination flow sensor /controller may also function as a
landscape water meter or submeter.
Friable" means a soil condition that is easily crumbled or loosely compacted down to a
minimum depth per planting material requirements, where by the root structure of newly planted
material will be allowed to spread unimpeded.
Fuel Modification Plan Guideline" means guidelines from a local fire authority to
assist residents and businesses that are developing land or building structures in a fire hazard
severity zone.
Grading" has the meaning set forth in Section 17. 56. 040 of the Vista Development
Code.
Graywater" means untreated waste water that has not been contaminated by any toilet
discharge, has not been affected by infectious, contaminated, or unhealthy bodily waste, and
does not present a threat from contamination by unhealthful processing, manufacturing, or
operating waste. " Graywater" includes, but is not limited to, wastewater from bathtubs,
showers, bathroom washbasins, clothes washing machines, and laundry tubs, but does not
include wastewater from kitchen sinks or dishwashers.
Hardscape" means any durable surface material, pervious or impervious.
High water usage" means a plant species identified as having a high plant factor.
Hydrozone" means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
needs that are served by a valve or set of valves with the same schedule. A hydrozone may be
irrigated or non - irrigated.
Infiltration rate" means the rate of water entry into the soil expressed as a depth of
water per unit of time (e. g., inches per hour).
Invasive species" means species of plants not historically found in California that
spread outside cultivated areas and have the potential to damage environmental and /or
economic resources.
Irrigation Audit" means an in -depth evaluation of the performance of an irrigation
system conducted by a Certified Landscape Irrigation Auditor. An irrigation audit includes, but is
not limited to: inspection, system tune -up, system test with distribution uniformity or emission
uniformity, reporting overspray or runoff that causes overland flow, and preparation of an
irrigation schedule. The audit must be conducted in a manner consistent with the Irrigation
Association' s Landscape Irrigation Auditor Certification program or other U. S. Environmental
Protection Agency "Watersense" labeled auditing program.
Irrigation efficiency (IE)" means the measurement of the amount of water beneficially
used divided by the amount of water applied. Irrigation efficiency is derived from measurements
and estimates of irrigation system characteristics and management practices.
Irrigation system" means a centrally controlled, permanent automatic system
18. 56( 4) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
designed to provide the proper amount of water to planted areas.
Landscape architect" means a person who holds a license to practice landscape
architecture in the state of California, pursuant to Business and Professions Code, Division 3,
Chapter 3. 5, Section 5615.
Landscape area" means an area with outdoor plants, turf, and other vegetation that
uses water provided by the Vista Irrigation District or other local water purveyor. A landscape
area includes water features either in an area with vegetation or that stands alone. A landscape
area does not include the footprint of buildings, structures, decks, patios, sidewalks, driveways,
gravel or stone walkways, paved portions of parking lots or other hard landscape. A landscape
area does not include an area without irrigation designated for non - development, such as
designated open space or area with existing natural vegetation or a transition zone.
Landscape construction plans /documents" mean a set of precise drawings and
details, used with specifications, for the construction of a landscape project. If a conceptual
landscape plan was required, these landscape construction plans shall be consistent with them.
Landscape documentation package" means a package of drawings and other
documents consisting of three submittals ( Conceptual Landscape submittal, Landscape
Construction submittal, and Final Inspection submittal) demonstrating that the landscape design
and installation complies with the requirements of this ordinance.
Landscape Manual" means the City of Vista Landscape Manual ( hereinafter referred
to as the " Manual "), as may be amended from time to time.
Landscape water meter" means an inline device installed at the irrigation supply point
that measures the flow of water into the irrigation system and is connected to a totalizer to
record water use.
Licensed professional of work or record" means a person who holds a California
license which allows the preparation of landscape planting and irrigation plans.
Low head drainage" means a sprinkler head or other irrigation device that continues
to emit water to the zone in which it is located after it has shut off.
Low volume irrigation" means any equipment that uniformly delivers a low volume of
water to the landscape.
Low water usage" means a plant species identified as having a low plant factor.
Master shut -off valve" is an automatic valve installed at the irrigation supply point
which controls water flow into the irrigation system. When this valve is closed water will not be
supplied to the irrigation system. A master valve will greatly reduce any water loss due to a
leaky station valve. Unless otherwise approved, the master valve shall be specified as
normally closed."
Maximum applied water allowance ( MAWA)" means the maximum allowed water
use for a specific landscape area based on the square footage of the area, the ETAF, and the
reference ETo. MAWA = ( ETo) ( 0. 62) [( ETAF x LA) + (( 1 - ETAF) x SLA)]
Median" is an area between opposing lanes of traffic that may be unplanted or planted
with trees, shrubs, perennials, and ornamental grasses.
Medium water usage" means a plant species identified as having a medium plant
factor.
Mulch" means an organic material, such as leaves, bark, or straw as applied to the soil
surface to reduce evaporation, suppress weeds, moderate soil temperature or prevent erosion.
Native vegetation" means plant species and varieties which are indigenous to the
Southern California area.
Non- residential landscape" means landscapes in commercial, institutional, and
industrial, and public settings that may have areas designated for recreation or public assembly.
It also includes portions of common areas of common interest developments with designated
recreational areas.
18. 56( 5) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Open space" means areas set aside for active or passive recreational use. Many of
these areas are natural, many are parks, and other recreational facilities and set apart from
other development by property lines or other distinct elements.
Operating pressure" means the pressure at which a system of sprinklers is designed
to operate, usually indicated at the base of a sprinkler.
Outdoor `WaterSmart' package" means a document/documents, for example, leaflets
and a checklist of recommendations, describing landscape water conservation principles and
techniques appropriate to small landscape design and installation.
Overhead sprinkler irrigation systems" means systems that deliver water through
the air ( e. g., spray heads and rotors).
Overspray" means the water from irrigation or that is delivered outside an area
targeted for the irrigation and makes contact with a surface not intended to be irrigated.
Parkway" means the area of a public or private road right -of -way that is between the
curb and sidewalk or between the sidewalk and the property line of the adjacent public or
private property, which is used for landscaping and /or pedestrian access.
Pervious" means any surfaces or material that allows the passage of water through
the material and into underlying soil.
Plant factor" means a factor that, when multiplied by ETo, estimates the amount of
water used by plants. For purposes of this ordinance, the following plant factors shall apply:
very low water use plants - 0. 1; low water use plants - 0. 3; average water use plants - 0. 6; high
water use plants  1. 0.
Point of connection" means the source of water for a specific irrigation system.
Precipitation rate" means the rate of application of water measured in inches per
hour.
Public water purveyor" means a public utility, municipal water district, municipal
irrigation district, or municipality that delivers water to consumers.
Rain sensor" or " Rain sensing shutoff device" means a component which
automatically suspends an irrigation event when it rains.
Record drawing or as -built plans" means a set of drawings which show significant
changes in the work made during construction and which are usually based on drawings
marked up in the field and other data furnished by the contractor.
Recreation area" means areas, excluding private single family residential areas,
designated for play ( active or passive), recreation or public assembly in parks, sports fields,
picnic grounds, amphitheaters, or golf course tees fairways, surrounds, and greens.
Recycled /reclaimed water" means water obtained from the treatment of domestic
water waste which is suitable for direct beneficial use or a controlled use that otherwise would
not occur, and also meets the highest level in conformance with the California Code of
Regulations, Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3 ( use of recycled water for irrigation and for
impoundments), currently sections 60304 and 60305.
Reference evapotranspiration" or " ETo" means a standard measurement of
environmental parameters that affect the water use of plants. ETo is given in inches per day,
month, or year and is an estimate of the evapotranspiration of a large field of four inches to
seven inches tall, cool season turf that is well watered. Reference evapotranspiration is used as
the basis of determining the MAWA so that regional difference in climate can be
accommodated.
Rehabilitated landscape" means any re- landscaping project that requires a permit.
Residential landscape" means landscapes surrounding single homes.
Runoff" means water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape to which it is
applied and flows from the landscaped area. For example, runoff may result from water that is
applied at too great a rate ( application rate exceeds infiltration rate) or when there is a slope.
Slope" means an expanse of rising or falling land.
18. 56( 6) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Soil" means the growing medium available for plant growth.
Soil moisture sensing device" or " soil moisture sensor" means a device that
measures the amount of water in the soil. The device may also suspend or initiate an irrigation
event.
Special landscaped area ( SLA)" means an area of landscape that falls into one of the
following categories:
1. Is used for growing edible plants including community gardens.
2. Is irrigated with recycled /reclaimed water.
3. Is used for active play, or recreation, such as a park sports field or turf on a golf
course that provides a playing surface or a culturally significant community space, as
determined by the City Planner.
Sprinkler head" means a device which delivers water through a nozzle.
Static water pressure" means the pipeline or municipal water supply pressure when
water is not flowing.
Station" means an area served by one valve or by a set of valves that operate
simultaneously.
Street trees" means trees planted along streets within public or private road rights -ofway.
Submeter" means a metering device to measure water applied to the landscape that is
installed after the primary utility water meter.
Tentative approval of landscape installation" means an approval of the City Planner
that the landscaping has been installed in accordance with the landscape documentation
package and that such landscaping, if properly maintained for a period of one year, will be
eligible to receive a final approval of landscape installation."
Transitional area" means a portion of a landscaped area that is adjacent to a natural
or undisturbed area and is designed to ensure that the natural area remains unaffected by
plantings and irrigation installed on the property.
Turf" means a groundcover surface of natural mowed grass.
Valve" means a device used to control the flow of water in the irrigation system.
Vegetated area" means an area with vegetation that is irrigated.
Very low water usage" means a plant species identified as having a low plant factor.
Warm season grasses" means turf that grows during warm weather but becomes
dormant during cold weather. Warm season grasses include, among others, Bermuda grass,
Kikuyu grass, Seashore Paspalum, St. Augustine grass, Zoysia grass, and Buffalo grass.
Water conservation plan" means a plan delineating all hydrozones, a chart included
in the appendix of the manual analyzing the Estimated Total Water Use ( ETWU) relative to the
Maximum Applied Water Allowance ( MAWA), and an irrigation statement of intent, indicating
what equipment will be utilized and the anticipated run times of each valve or drip system.
Water feature" means a design element where open water provides an aesthetic or
recreational function. Water features include ponds, lakes, waterfalls, fountains, artificial
streams, spas, and swimming pools ( where water is artificially supplied). The surface area of
water features is included in the high water use hydrozone of the landscape area. Constructed
wetlands used for on -site wastewater treatment or storm water best management practices that
are not irrigated and used solely for water treatment or storm water retention are not water
features and, therefore, are not subject to the water budget calculation.
Watering window" means the time of day irrigation is allowed.
WUCOLS" means the Water Use Classification of Landscape Species published by the
University of California Cooperative Extension and the Department of Water Resources, as may
be amended from time to time.
Prior Code Appendix A 2002; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
18. 56( 7) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 56.050 Applicability
Unless otherwise exempted by Section 18. 56. 060, the submittal of a landscape
documentation package, as required by Section 18. 56.080, shall be required for the following
projects:
1. All new development with an aggregate landscape area equal or greater
than 500 square feet for commercial, industrial, institutional, mixed -use, multi - family residential
projects, and single family homes for which a building and /or grading permit is required.
2. All new developments with an aggregate landscape area equal or greater
than 500 square feet which have been approved through a Site Development Plan, Plot Plan
Review, Special or Minor Use Permit, Planned Residential Development, Condominium
Housing Permit, Specific Plan, or any other discretionary permit.
3. All graded hillsides with a slope 4: 1 or steeper.
4. Rehabilitated landscaped areas with an aggregate landscape area equal
to or greater than 2, 500 square feet in association with a building and /or grading permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2003; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56.060 Exemptions
A. This ordinance does not apply to the following:
1. Registered local, state, or federal historical sites, provided that the
historical designation extends to the landscaped areas to be exempted.
2. Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent irrigation
system.
3. Plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums open to the
public.
4. Any single -f amily structure being rebuilt as a result of its destruction by
natural causes.
5. Discretionary projects which propose an allowance of a particular use on
a property that has already received discretionary approval, and where no construction, grading,
etc., is proposed.
Prior Code Appendix A 2001; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18.56.070 Landscape Manual
The Director of Community Development is authorized to prepare rules to assist in the
implementation of the provisions of this chapter, provided that no implementing rules shall be in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter or the Act. The rules shall be set forth in a Landscape
Manual ( hereinafter referred to as the " Manual "). The Manual shall include rules for reviewing
the design of landscaping and irrigation improvements, maintaining landscaping, and assessing
compliance with this chapter. It shall be revised from time to time as deemed necessary by the
Director in order to ensure continued compliance with the Act or any revisions thereof, and to
improve the appearance of landscaped areas. All persons and property owners subject to this
chapter shall comply with the rules set forth in the Manual.
Prior Code Appendix A 2000; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
18. 56( 8) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 56.080 Landscape Documentation Package; Processing and Approval
Requirements
A. All work on a covered project undertaken by an applicant and /or a landowner
must be processed, completed, and maintained in accordance with this chapter and the
Manual. Refer to the Manual for additional requirements. The City Planner reserves the right to
modify the information required as part of the Package as deemed necessary. In no case shall
any modification be permitted that would cause a project to fail to meet the water conservation
requirements contained in this chapter and in the Manual. All parts of the Landscape
Documentation Package ( hereinafter referred to as the " Package ") must be prepared by a
licensed landscape architect, licensed civil engineer, licensed architect, or other landscape
professional licensed by the state to do this work, unless otherwise noted. The content,
preparation, and procedure for submitting the Package shall comply with the terms of this
chapter and the Manual.
Prior Code Appendix A 2005; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56.090 Wastewater Prevention
No new irrigation system ( since the approval of this ordinance) shall allow irrigation
water to flow onto adjacent property, no- irrigated areas, structure, walkways, roadways or other
paved areas whether the cause is runoff, low head drainage or other similar condition.
Prior Code Appendix A 2004; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56. 100 City' s Right to Inspect
The City has the right, but not the obligation, to inspect any landscape installation for
which it has an approved Package.
Prior Code Appendix A 2000; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56. 110 Performance and Payment Guarantee
A. No building or grading permit for a covered project shall be issued unless the
applicant has posted a bond or other guarantee with the City of Vista, approved by the Director,
pledging the performance of landscape installation and maintenance. The bond or other
guarantee shall state that such funds are trust funds for the purpose of satisfying the cost of
correcting deficiency of the work and, if required by Section 3247 of the California Civil Code, a
payment bond sufficient to satisfy that requirement.
1. The total bond or other guarantee shall be in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
2. The total amount of the bond or other guarantee shall be equal to one -
hundred fifty ( 150) percent of the estimated cost of all landscaping work shown on the plans,
including but not limited to plants, installation, irrigation equipment, maintenance throughout the
one -year maintenance period, etc.
3. The estimated cost of the landscaping shall be as determined by the City
Planner after review estimates submitted by a licenses professional of work or record to prepare
this estimate.
B. Every bond or other guarantee shall include a landscaping and irrigation
agreement which shall require that the applicant:
18. 56( 9) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Comply with all provisions of this code, and applicable local, state, and
federal laws and ordinances.
2. Comply with all terms and conditions of the building and /or grading
permit(s), whichever may be applicable, to the satisfaction of the Building Official or City
Engineer respectively.
3. Complete all landscaping work indicated on the site development plan,
building plan, or grading plan, whichever may be applicable.
C. The landscaping and irrigation agreement identified above shall be in a form
approved by the City Attorney and may be approved and executed by the Director on behalf of
the City.
D. In the event that the applicant fails to complete project landscaping, including the
establishment of the plantings throughout the maintenance period, the City Planner may order
such work to be completed to his or her satisfaction.
1. The person( s) responsible for the bond or other guarantee shall continue
to be firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary costs and
expenses incurred by the City in order to complete any and all such work to be done.
2. In the case of certificate of deposit or a cash deposit, any unused portion
thereof shall be refunded to the applicant.
E. Each bond or other guarantee shall remain in effect until final approval of
landscaping is granted by the City Planner, and in accordance with the requirements of
applicable laws.
1. The City Planner may, at his or her discretion, allow a landscape
maintenance bond or other guarantee to be posted in -lieu of the original bond or guarantee
once landscaping has been tentatively accepted.
a. The amount of this bond shall be determined by the City Planner
based on anticipated maintenance costs throughout the one -year maintenance period.
b. The original bond or other guarantee shall not be released until
the maintenance bond or other guarantee has been posted.
C. The maintenance bond or other guarantee shall not be released
until final approval of landscaping by the City.
F. If suit is brought upon the bond or other guarantee by the City and judgment is
recovered, the person( s) responsible for the bond or other guarantee shall pay all costs incurred
by the City in such suit, including a reasonable attorney' s fee to be fixed by the court.
Prior Code Appendix A 2005, Prior Code Appendix A 2009/2010, 0; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended,
04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2000 -2, Amended 6/ 13/ 2000; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011;
Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18.56. 120 Fees
The fee for all landscape plans submitted pursuant to this chapter shall be established
by resolution of the City Council and may be amended from time to time to ensure recovery of
the necessary cost for processing such plans and conducting inspections of the installed
landscaping.
Prior Code Appendix A 2005; Prior Code Appendix A 2011; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord.
No. 2011 -2, Repealed and Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
Section 18. 56. 130 Compliance with the California Water Commission Model Ordinance
This Landscape Manual and the Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance ( Chapter 18. 56 of
the Vista Development Code) meets or exceeds the California Department of Water Resources
Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance by making the Plant Factors and Irrigation
Efficiency more restrictive; by requiring drip irrigation in all landscaped areas except slopes
grades 4: 1 or steeper) and turf areas, and by restricting the use of turf to areas that have
18. 56 ( 10) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
recreation utility or serve as bio - swales /bio- retention areas. This is in lieu of requirements for
the installation of flow sensors /master values and separate irrigation water meters on single
family residential projects and the requirement to perform landscape irrigation audits on single
family residential projects.
Prior Code Appendix A 2005; Ord. No. 97 -8, Amended, 04/ 08/ 1997; Ord. No. 2011 -2, Repealed and
Replaced, 2/ 22/ 2011; Ord. No. 2015 -24, Amended, 12/ 8/ 15)
18. 56 ( 11) ( Vista 1/ 8/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 58
General Provisions, Conditions, and Exceptions
Sections:
18. 58.010 Application of Provisions
18. 58.020 Special Setback Requirements - Exceptions
18. 58.030 Clarification of Use and Regulations
18. 58.040 Specific Plan Application
18. 58.050 Specific Plan of Design - Adoption and Requirements
18. 58.060 Public Utility Lines
18. 58.070 Sidewalk Arcades Allowed When
18. 58.080 Pets-Number Allowed
18. 58.090 Pets- Nuisance Abatement Procedure
18. 58. 100 Residential Care Homes
18. 58. 110 Minimum Area Requirements - When Met
18. 58. 120 Building Height
18. 58. 130 Additional Story Permitted When
18. 58. 140 Structures Allowed Above Height Limitations - Without Special Use Permit
18. 58. 150 Structures Allowed Above Height Limitations - With Special Use Permit
18. 58. 160 Yards
18. 58. 170 Corner Lot Setbacks
18. 58. 180 Through Lots
18. 58. 190 Road Easement Setbacks
18. 58.200 Building Restrictions on Lots Abutting Partial Streets
18. 58.210 Cul- de-Sac Front Yard Setbacks
18. 58.220 Conflict of Requirements
18. 58.230 Minimum Front Yard Requirements
18. 58.240 Adjacent Street Setbacks
18. 58.250 Modification of Requirements - Administrative Application
18. 58.260 Outdoor Lighting Facilities and/or Fixtures
18. 58.270 Location of Accessory Buildings
18. 58.280 Light Poles
18. 58.290 Building Structure Projections
18. 58.300 Buena Vista Creek Special Setback
18. 58.310 Roofed Patio Projections
18. 58.320 Fire Escape Projections
18. 58.330 Stairway Projections
18. 58.340 Uncovered Porch and Platform Projections - Side or Rear Yards
18. 58.350 Uncovered Porch and Platform Projections - Front Yards
18. 58.360 Guard Railing Projections
18. 58.370 Fences and Walls
18. 58.380 Trees, Shrubs, Flowers and Plants
18. 58.390 Areas Applied to Rear Yard Depth
18. 58.400 Minimum Area Requirements to be Maintained
18. 58.410 Minimum Area Requirements - Building Restrictions
18. 58.420 Minimum Area Requirements - When Portion Acquired for Public Use
18. 58.430 Reduction of Lots Having No More than Minimum Required Area
18. 58.440 Reduction of Lots Below Minimum Required Area
18. 58.450 Minimum Area Requirements - When Portion Acquired for Street Widening
18. 58 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
18. 58.460 Reduction of Lots Designated for Public Use
18. 58.470 Location of Animal and Poultry Structures
18. 58.475 Tobacco Stores Prohibited within 1, 000 Feet of a School
18. 58.480 Home Occupations
18. 58.490 Outdoor Swimming Pool
18. 58.500 Satellite Antennas
18. 58.510 Radio and Television Reception Antennas - Maximum Height
18. 58.520 Amateur Radio Antennas- Maximum Height
18. 58.530 Commercial Radio and Television Broadcast Antennas - Maximum Height
18. 58.540 Restrictions on Land Use
18. 58.550 Minimum Residential Building Area
18. 58.560 Bedroom Defined
18. 58.570 Transit Shelters and Bus Benches
18. 58.580 Temporary Uses of Permanent and Modular Buildings, Commercial Coaches,
Semi- Trailers, and Storage Containers ( Maritime Cargo Containers)
18. 58.590 Refuse Collection and Storage Areas
18. 58.600 Crematoriums Prohibited
18. 58.610 Hookah Lounges; Prohibition
18. 58.620 Parcels or Lots Under Common Control
Section 18. 58.010 Application of Provisions
The regulations in this title pertaining to the several zones shall be subject to the general
provisions, conditions and exceptions contained in this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix A 2101)
Section 18. 58.020 Special Setback Requirements - Exceptions
Special setbacks are a necessary requirement for the future construction of major
thoroughfares that are a part of the circulation element of the general plan, or the possible future
widening of streets that may be required by such element or projected increases in traffic volume
or loads.
A. No building or structure, unless specifically exempted in this chapter, shall be
erected or maintained less than 20 feet from the ultimate street right-of-way line ( existing street
in which the subject street has been dedicated or improved to its ultimate width) of any major
thoroughfare that is a component of the circulation element of the general plan, or any street
having an ultimate width in excess of 60 feet, with the exception of properties located in the
Mixed Use ( M- U) or Downtown Vista Specific Plan ( DVSP) zones. All special setbacks may be
modified as an express condition of the approval of a Site Development Plan or Plot Plan by the
Planning Commission or City Council at a public hearing.
B. Parking facilities, except parking structures, may intrude into the required
setback, but not more than 15 feet, or to within five feet of the ultimate street right-of-way line.
1. Parked motor vehicles may project into the required five-foot parking area
setback no more than two feet.
2. The required setback area shall be appropriately landscaped in
accordance with the provisions of the applicable zoning district regulations and Chapter 18. 56.
C. Freestanding sign structures may be placed within the required street setback,
but shall not intrude, or project into, the ultimate street right-of-way. Such structures shall comply
with the applicable provisions of Chapter 18. 52.
D. Exceptions.
1. Any building or development in the M- U Mixed Use Zone or the
Downtown Specific Plan.
18. 58 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Any development exempted from such setbacks by the Planning
Commission at a noticed public hearing.
Prior Code Appendix A 2102; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended, 10/ 9/ 12; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended,
1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 58.030 Clarification of Use and Regulations
If ambiguity arises concerning the appropriate classification of a particular use with the
meaning and intent of this title, or if ambiguity exists with respect to matters of height, yard
requirements, area requirements or zone boundaries, as set forth herein and as they may
pertain to unforeseen circumstances, it shall be the duty of the commission to ascertain all
pertinent facts and by formal resolution set forth its finding and its interpretation, and such
resolutions shall be forwarded to the City Council, and if approved by the City Council,
thereafter, such interpretation shall govern.
Prior Code Appendix A 2103)
Section 18. 58.040 Specific Plan Application
After a specific plan of streets, lots and other features of design is adopted in the matter
prescribed by law, the land covered by such specific plan may be authorized for uses conforming
to such specific plan by reclassification of such land or by the granting of variances, provided
such variance or variances shall conform in purpose and effect to carrying out the provisions of
such formally adopted specific plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2104)
Section 18. 58.050 Specific Plan of Design - Adoption and Requirements
A. Type of land use indicated on a specific plan or development agreement may
require the adoption of a specific plan of design for the area. Such specific plan shall be adopted
as a part of proceedings for the development of property. The contents of the specific plan of
design shall contain the following:
1. Boundaries of the parcel of land.
2. Existing public streets and alleys adjacent to or within the property
together with existing and proposed improvements on such streets.
3. All access to the property from existing or proposed public streets and
alleys.
4. Proposed public streets and alleys and the proposed improvements.
5. Any or all of the following may be required to ensure the execution of the
general plan or the purpose of this title:
a. Regulations limiting the use of land and buildings, and the open
space around buildings.
b. Regulations limiting the location of buildings and other
improvements with respect to existing or planned rights- of-way.
C. Proposed drives, parking areas, building site dimensions and
locations, easements for utilities or drainage or location and design of drainage structures.
B. Any uses, structures, or improvements which are not specified in a specific plan
as adopted for a parcel of land shall be subject to all limitations and controls of the zone in
which the parcel of land is classified. A specific plan shall be adopted as part of the proceedings
for the development of property as provided in Chapter 18. 80, and the plan adopted shall not
constitute an amendment to the zoning map, unless designated as part of a specific plan or
development agreement.
Prior Code Appendix A 2106)
18. 58 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 58.060 Public Utility Lines
The provisions of this title shall not be construed to limit or interfere with the installation,
maintenance and operation of water lines, sewer lines, gas lines, other public utility pipelines,
electric, telephone or telegraph transmission lines when installed, maintained, and operated in
accordance with all other applicable laws.
Prior Code Appendix A 2107)
Section 18.58.070 Sidewalk Arcades Allowed When
Sidewalk arcades and similar architectural features of commercial buildings may be
established and maintained in a required front yard upon the issuance of a special use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2108)
Section 18. 58.080 Pets-Number Allowed
A. Pets may be kept in any residential unit, provided the keeping of such pets does
not constitute a nuisance, hazard or other detriment to the health, safety or general welfare of
the community, including, but not limited to, noise and odor.
B. The following numbers indicate the maximum number of animals that may be
kept in a residence under any circumstance:
1. Dogs and/ or cats, as designated in the particular zone in which the
property is located.
2. Ornamental birds and songbirds, 25, unless an aviary is permitted.
3. Other small rodents and reptiles, 25, if kept indoors in cages.
4. Fish, unlimited.
Prior Code Appendix A 2109)
Section 18. 58.090 Pets - Nuisance Abatement Procedure
A. No pet or group of pets, regardless of the number allowed, shall be kept in any
fashion as to constitute a nuisance, hazard or other detriment to the health, safety or general
welfare of the community or neighborhood wherein the pet or pets are kept.
B. The City Manager shall assign an administrative hearing officer to conduct an
administrative hearing to consider evidence as to whether any pet or pets constitute a nuisance,
hazard or detriment to the community or the neighborhood. Such hearings may be initiated by
either:
1. A petition signed by 25 percent of the neighbors within 300 feet of the
property harboring the pet or pets in question.
2. Recommendation of a duly authorized investigation officer employed or
contracted by the City, based on findings of an investigation of a situation in question.
C. Upon proper initiation of a nuisance hearing, the code enforcement department
shall schedule an administrative hearing and notify by mail all property owners within 300 feet of
the time and place of such hearing. Such notice shall be given not less than ten days before the
hearing, nor more than ten days after receipt of petition or administrative initiation.
D. At the hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall take testimony and receive
evidence pertaining to the alleged nuisance.
E. After the hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall determine:
1. That the evidence is insufficient to determine findings that a nuisance
exists.
18. 58 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. That findings based on evidence indicate that a nuisance exists, in which
case it shall also be determined:
a. The manner in which the nuisance is to be abated.
b. The amount of time in which the abatement is to occur.
F. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the administrative hearing officer may
appeal to the City Council, who shall give notice of a nuisance hearing in the manner outlined in
Subsection C of this section. The decision of the City Council is final.
G. Continuance of a nuisance after the abatement date set by the hearing officer or
City Council on appeal shall constitute a violation of this title subject to procedures of Chapter
18. 82.
Prior Code Appendix A 2110)
Section 18. 58. 100 Residential Care Homes
A. Intent and Purpose.
1. It is the intent of this section to encourage and facilitate the development
of residential care homes within the city in order to provide proper facilities for those segments
of the community' s population in need of the services provided by such facilities/ activities.
2. The purpose of this section is to clarify procedures for the establishment
and/ or construction of residential care homes for more than six persons, as defined in Section
18. 02.575, to provide guidelines for the location of such facilities within the community as they
relate to the availability of the necessary activities and services, and to establish development
criteria for such facilities.
B. Development Standards. A residential care home for more than six persons
shall, in addition to the development standards of the applicable zoning district regulations,
comply with the following requirements and/ or guidelines:
1. Locational Criteria. Residential care homes shall be reviewed in light of
the following factors in determining an appropriate location for such facilities:
a. The accessibility to physician' s services, medical facilities and
community activity sites.
b. Proximity to public transit facilities ( fixed routes) or the provision of
transportation for residents.
C. Location in relation to heavy industrial or commercial facilities or
activities, and other facilities or activities that may be detrimental to the residents of the home.
d. The outdoor noise level at any site proposed for a residential care
home should not exceed 50 decibels at the site boundary.
e. The minimum distance between residential care homes,
measured from the site boundary, shall not be less than 300 feet.
f. The City recognizes that the use of land for residential care homes
could be severely detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of those homes if
the homes are in close proximity to bars, adult entertainment centers, and adult motion picture
theaters. Therefore, no residential care home shall be built or occupied within 500 feet of any
adult use defined or described in Section 18. 40. 100 or within 500 feet of any bar or cocktail
lounge as defined or described in Section 18. 02. 125.
2. Open Space. Open space for outdoor recreation shall be provided at a
ratio of 100 square feet for each resident. Not less than 50 percent of this open space
requirement shall have a slope exceeding five percent in any direction.
3. Unit Size. The minimum floor area for sleeping rooms should not be less
than 100 square feet for sleeping rooms for one person and/ or 80 square feet for each person in
rooms intended for double occupancy.
18. 58 ( 5) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
4. Fire Safety Standards.
a. Any building housing more than six persons shall be accessible
for firefighting purposes and evacuation at all levels on not less than three sides.
b. Fire safety and suppression devices and measures shall be in
conformance with all applicable building and fire codes, and such other codes and requirements
as may be determined necessary by the Fire Chief or Building Official.
5. Landscaping, Design and Screening.
a. Landscaping and architectural design of residential care homes
shall be in harmony with surrounding residential development. The buildings and grounds shall
be maintained in such a manner as to enhance the appearance of the area in which they are
located.
b. Screening on exterior projects site boundaries shall be compact
evergreen plantings ( deciduous planting may be used where evergreens may interfere with
solar energy devices or their utilization) in conjunction with earthen berms ( or mounds). A
decorative masonry wall or fence and/ or additional plantings may be required as a condition of
any use permit granted in conjunction with the project.
C. All other screening requirements shall be as established by the
applicable zoning district requirements.
6. Signs.
a. Wall or Monument Sign. One unlighted wall or monument sign,
not exceeding six square feet in area, may be permitted as a condition of granting a use permit.
b. Directional Signs. Directional signs not exceeding four square
feet in area may be permitted as a condition of granting any use permit required.
C. Findings. The Planning Commission and/ or City Council, on appeal, shall
include findings for any special use permit sought in conjunction with this chapter that any
proposed project is in compliance with the criteria set forth herein in addition to the regular
findings required for the granting of such a permit.
D. Review. Any use permit issued in conjunction with an application for a residential
care home may be subject to periodic review for compliance with specified conditions, and may
be subject to revocation in accordance with the applicable provisions of this code should it be
determined that there is a serious violation of any conditions thereof.
Prior Code Appendix A 2111)
Section 18.58. 110 Minimum Area Requirements - When Met
Any lot or building site shall be deemed to meet the minimum area requirements of the
zone in which it is located when:
A. It existed as an entire lot, or as an entire parcel for which either a deed was of
record in the Office of the County Recorder or a bona fide contract of sale was in full force and
effect, prior to the date it was first zoned.
B. The owner thereof owns no adjoining land.
C. It is not the result of a division of land in violation of any state law or county
ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2119)
Section 18. 58. 120 Building Height
Except as provided in this chapter, no building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed
or structurally altered to exceed the height limit established by this title for the zone in which
such building or structure is located.
Prior Code Appendix A 2120)
18. 58 ( 6) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.58. 130 Additional Story Permitted When
Where the average slope of a lot is greater than one foot rise or fall in seven feet of
distance from the established street elevation at the property line or if no established grade exists
at the property line, the established centerline grade, an additional story will be permitted on the
downhill side of any building.
Prior Code Appendix A 2121)
Section 18. 58. 140 Structures Allowed Above Height Limitations - Without Special Use
Permit
Radio and television receiving antennas of the type customarily used for home radio and
television receivers, exclusive of dish- type antennas, and solar energy systems or other
individual, small- scale, on- site energy generation equipment that serves the project site may be
erected and maintained above the height limit applicable to the zoning district in which they are
located.
Prior Code Appendix A 2122)
Section 18. 58. 150 Structures Allowed Above Height Limitations-With Special Use
Permit
Towers, gables, spires, sundecks, scenery lofts, cupolas, water tanks, windmills and
similar structures and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected and maintained
above the height limit established for the district in which such structures are located upon the
issuance of a special use permit therefore; provided, however, no such structure above such
height limit shall be used for sleeping or eating quarters or for any commercial purpose other than
such as may be incidental to the permitted uses of the main building.
Prior Code Appendix A 2123)
Section 18. 58. 160 Yards
A. Except as provided in this chapter, every required front, side and rear yard shall
be open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky.
B. No lot or building site shall be divided or reduced in area or dimension so as to
cause any required yard or open space to be less than that required by this title.
C. No yard or open space provided around any building for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this title shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building, and no yard or open space on any adjoining property shall be considered
as providing a yard or open space on a building site whereon a building is located or is to be
erected; provided, that when the common boundary line separating two or more contiguous lots
is covered by a building or permitted group of buildings, or when two or more such lots are used
as a single building site, such lots shall constitute a single building site and the yard spaces as
required by this title shall then not apply to such common boundary line.
Prior Code Appendix A 2124)
Section 18. 58. 170 Corner Lot Setbacks
In the case of a corner lot abutting upon two streets, all buildings or structures in an
agricultural, estate or residential zone shall have a minimum setback of ten feet from the ultimate
street right-of-way line of the street parallel to the side line of the lot, and all buildings or
structures in a commercial or industrial zone shall have a minimum setback to a line at least as
18. 58 ( 7) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
far back from the property line as the ultimate street right-of-way line of the street parallel to the
side line of the lot, based on both cases on the standards set forth in the subdivision ordinance
and/ or the adopted circulation element of the general plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2125)
Section 18. 58. 180 Through Lots
A through lot shall maintain a front yard adjacent to each street upon which it fronts.
Prior Code Appendix A 2126)
Section 18.58. 190 Road Easement Setbacks
A. All setbacks from road easements shall be as set forth herein unless such
easement has been designated a future public street by approval of a subdivision or parcel map
or other action of the Planning Commission or City Council, in which case setbacks from public
streets shall apply.
B. Setbacks from private road easements shall be ten feet from the easement rightof-
way line for all buildings except garages which face such thoroughfare, in which case the
setback shall be 20 feet from the easement right-of-way line.
Prior Code Appendix A 2128)
Section 18. 58.200 Building Restrictions on Lots Abutting Partial Streets
A. A building or structure shall not be erected or maintained on a lot or parcel of
land which abuts a street or alley having only a portion of its required width dedicated and
where no part of such dedication would normally revert to such lot or parcel if the street or alley
were vacated, unless the yards provided and maintained in connection with such building or
structure have a width or depth of that portion of the lot or parcel of land needed to complete the
street or alley width, plus the width or depth of the yards required on the lot or parcel of land by
this title if any.
B. This section applies whether this title requires yards or not.
C. The Planning Commission, upon request, shall determine the required street or
alley width.
Prior Code Appendix A 2129)
Section 18. 58.210 Cul- de-Sac Front Yard Setbacks
A. The front yard of any lot or building site at the end of any cul- de- sac street shall
be at least 20 feet from the nearest edge, street line, and terminal line of any such street which
has been dedicated for public use.
B. On any such street which has not been dedicated for public use, the front yard
setback for any lot or building site shall be in the amount of 40 feet measured from a point on
the centerline of the undedicated or private street, which is one- half of the private street width
distance, from the dead end of such private street, except in those cases where a future extension
of such street is proposed under a plan approved by the Planning Commission or City Council, in
which case the front yard setback shall be maintained from the centerline of such street extension
as provided in Section 18. 58. 190.
Prior Code Appendix A 2130)
18. 58 ( 8) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 58.220 Conflict of Requirements
If the yard requirements, area requirements or any other requirements established by
this title are less than the yard requirements, area requirements or such other requirements
established by a specific plan adopted pursuant to law, the requirements of such specific plan
shall prevail.
Prior Code Appendix A 2131)
Section 18.58.230 Minimum Front Yard Requirements
Any front yard requirement shall be deemed to be met when the depth of the front yard
provided at least equals the average of that established by existing buildings which occupy 50
percent or more of the lots within the same block and zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 2131)
Section 18. 58.240 Adjacent Street Setbacks
Where a yard is measured from the centerline of an adjacent street, or where buildings or
structures are required to be set back a certain distance from the centerline of an adjacent
street, and such adjacent street consists of a service road or street or outer highway contiguous
to a main street or thoroughfare, the yard or the setback distance, as the case may be, shall be
measured from the centerline of the service road or street or outer highway and not from the
centerline of the main street or thoroughfare.
Prior Code Appendix A 2132)
Section 18. 58.250 Modification of Requirements - Administrative Application
A. The Planning Commission may, by resolution, adopt a formula or establish
standard practices by which to determine an appropriate and practical modification of required
front, side and rear yard depths or widths in all zones where geometric shape and dimensions
and topography are such as to make the literal application of such required yard depths or
widths impractical.
B. After the adoption of such formula or standard practices and the approval thereof
by the City Council, they shall be applied as an administrative act.
Prior Code Appendix A 2132)
Section 18. 58.260 Outdoor Lighting Facilities and/ or Fixtures
A. Purpose and intent.
1. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform standards and regulations that will:
a. Define the type(s) of outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures that
may be utilized on private property within the corporate limits of the city.
b. Reduce the consumption of electrical energy used for outdoor
lighting, thereby conserving fossil fuels and other related forms of energy.
C. Restrict the various forms of lighting that generate excessive glare
and are detrimental to the "night sky" environment.
d. Provide lighting for security and safety purposes as a first priority.
2. Intent. It is the intent of this section to provide standards and regulations
for the installation of outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures that will:
18. 58 ( 9) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
a. Minimize light pollution of the " night sky" which has a detrimental
effect on the environment by obstructing astronomical research and unduly illuminates adjacent
properties in such a manner as to create a detriment to the public health, safety or welfare.
b. Reduce energy consumption by requiring the use of private
outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures of a type that provide the necessary light in a manner that
illuminates the desired area or feature most efficiently with a minimum amount of light energy.
C. Provide sufficient and adequate lighting for security and safety
purposes as a first priority.
B. Definitions.
1. Automatic timing device" means a clock device which automatically
activates and deactivates outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures or electrical circuits thereto.
2. Light pollution" means illumination of the " night sky," directly or
indirectly, by artificial lighting facilities and/ or fixtures which generate negative impacts on
astronomical research facilities.
3. Shielding" means a technique or method of construction which causes
light emitted from an outdoor lighting facility or fixture to be projected below an imaginary
horizontal plane passing through the lowest point of the luminairy, lamp or light source used in
the facility or fixture.
C. Applicability.
1. Private outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures installed on or after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section and thereafter maintained upon private
property within any zoning district shall comply with the standards and regulations set forth in this
section and all applicable provisions of the Uniform Building and Electrical Codes as adopted by
the City.
2. This section is not applicable to lights on any property owned or operated
by the city, county, state, or local government, school district or special district, or lights owned
and operated by a public utility regulated by the public utility commission. Examples include, but
are not limited to, public street lights, public park lights, the Wave, the City or school district yard
or administrative facilities, VID facilities, or SDG& E-owned street lights.
D. Exemptions. The following are exempt from provisions of this section:
1. Lights at any detention facility.
2. Lights on private property exempted by the City Planner as part of any
ongoing law enforcement or civil action undertaken by a local, state, or federal agency.
3. Any project where the provisions of this section are waived or modified
after a public hearing by the Planning Commission or on appeal to the City Council subject to
any conditions levied by the Planning Commission or City Council.
4. Lighting facilities and/ or fixtures producing light directly from, or by the
combustion of, fossil fuels, such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
5. Lighting facilities and/ or fixtures which consist of luminous tube lighting.
6. Lighting facilities and/ or fixtures used for Christmas decorations from the
day immediately following Thanksgiving Day on any calendar year to January 10th of the
following calendar year.
E. General Requirements.
1. Where reasonably accurate color rendition and maximum visibility is
necessary for commercial and industrial purposes, such as outdoor sales areas or permitted
outdoor work areas, any outdoor lighting facility or fixture serving such area( s) shall be shielded,
be equipped with automatic timing devices and be limited to the amount of light necessary for the
designated purpose.
2. Private outdoor lighting used for security purposes or to illuminate
walkways, equipment yards, streets or roadways ( public or private), parking lots, and similar
facilities shall be illuminated by shielded low pressure sodium lighting fixtures or their
18. 58 ( 10) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
technological equivalent or superior fixture meeting the intent of this chapter as determined by
the City Engineer.
3. Outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures used to illuminate on- premises
signs, or for architectural or decorative effects, shall be equipped with automatic timing devices,
be fully shielded and placed so that the light is directed towards the earth' s surface, and
designed to emit only the minimum amount of light necessary for their intended purpose(s).
4. Site development plan or plot plan applications, for any multifamily
residential, commercial or industrial project, required by applicable provisions of the zoning title,
proposing the installation of any outdoor lighting facilities and/or fixtures shall comply with the
provisions of this section. Plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently complete to enable the
reviewing official to readily determine whether compliance with these requirements will be met.
Where such plans and descriptions do not readily permit such determination, by reason of the
nature of configuration of the devices, fixtures or lamps proposed, the applicant shall submit
further evidence of compliance to enable such determination. Such submissions shall include,
but not necessary be limited to the following:
a. The on- site location of the outdoor lighting facility and/ or fixture.
b. A description of the type of outdoor lighting facility and/ or fixture
including, but not limited to, manufacturer's catalog cuts and drawings.
C. The type of light-emitting device ( low pressure sodium, high
pressure gas discharge, fluorescent, etc.) proposed to be installed in the fixture.
d. The type of timing device, or other control( s) to be utilized with the
lighting facility and/or fixtures.
e. The type of activity or facility for which the lighting facility and/ or
fixture is to be used.
f. Electrical plans must identify the type and wattage of all outdoor
lighting fixtures to be installed.
F. Hours of Operation. All outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures existing or
hereafter installed and maintained on private property in any zoning district shall be extinguished
turned off) between the hours of 11: 00 p. m. and sunrise with the following exceptions:
1. Commercial and industrial activities such as outdoor sales areas or
permitted outdoor work areas where such activities continue after 11: 00 p. m., but only for so long
as such activity continues.
2. Security purposes or illumination of streets or roadways ( public or
private), walkways, equipment yards, parking areas, where such parking area is utilized after
11: 00 p. m., but only for so long as it is in use, and similar purposes where such is necessary.
3. Recreational activities where such is in progress at 11: 00 p. m., but only
for so long as such activity continues.
4. On- premises advertising signs and billboards of business facilities or
activities which are open to the public between the hours of 11: 00 p. m. and sunrise, but only to
the extent that such facilities are actually serving the public.
5. Lights using low pressure sodium or their technological equivalent or
superior fixture meeting the intent of this chapter as determined by the City Engineer.
G. Design Standards.
1. The provisions of this section shall not limit or restrict the design, material
or method of installation of outdoor lighting facilities and/ or fixtures provided the light-emitting
device is in conformance with the purpose and intent hereof and in compliance with applicable
regulations governing the installation of electrical fixtures, including, but not limited to, the
Uniform Building Code and Uniform Electrical Code as adopted by the City.
2. For any development subject to approval of a site development plan or
plot plan, the following outdoor lighting design standard shall apply unless exempted by the
Planning Commission at a noticed public hearing:
18. 58 ( 11) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
a. Residential/ open space. The light level measured at five feet
above ground surface at the property line of an adjacent open space or residentially zoned lot
shall not exceed 0.25 foot candle, or no greater than the ambient light level measured prior to
operation of the project' s outdoor lighting facilities.
b. Commercial/ industrial. The light level measured at five feet
above ground surface at the property line of an adjacent commercial or industrially zoned lot
shall not exceed 1. 0 foot candle, or no greater than the ambient light level measured prior to
operation of the project' s outdoor lighting facilities.
H. Interpretation. The City Planner is authorized to make interpretations
determining compliance with the purpose and intent of the provisions hereof.
I. Appeals. An appeal of the decision of the City Planner, City Engineer, or
Planning Commission may be made in accordance with the provision of Section 18. 04. 150.
J. Nonconforming Lighting Facilities and/ or Fixtures.
1. Nonconforming outdoor lighting facilities and/or fixtures legally erected or
installed and maintained prior to the effective date of the chapter codified in this section shall be
exempt from the requirements hereof, unless work is proposed so as to replace 50 percent or
more of the existing outdoor lighting fixtures within a six-month period or less, or to increase to
the extent of 50 percent or more the number of outdoor lighting fixtures on the premises. In
such cases, both the proposed and existing outdoor lighting fixtures shall be made to conform to
the provisions of this section.
2. The installation of nonconforming light sources is prohibited after the
effective date of the chapter codified in this section. As existing nonconforming luminaries ( light
sources) become inoperable and/or damaged beyond repair, they shall be replaced with/ by lowpressure
sodium light sources or a technical equivalent or superior source meeting the intent of
this chapter as determined by the City Engineer.
Prior Code Appendix A 2135; Ord. No. 1996- 19, Amended, 10/ 22/ 96; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended,
10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18. 58.270 Location of Accessory Buildings
Detached accessory buildings and swimming pools in any estate, farm or residential zone
shall conform to the following regulations as to their location on the lot or building site:
A. They may be constructed anywhere the main building would be permitted.
B. They shall not be closer than five feet to the main building or to any other
accessory building, except that chicken houses may be closer together than five feet.
C. They shall not encroach on any required front yard or side yard except that:
1. A private garage may be built to within ten feet of the street line if the
slope of the half of the lot or building site abutting the street is greater than one-foot rise or fall in
seven feet from the established street elevation or if the elevation of such half of the lot or
building site is more than four feet above or below the established street elevation, provided
such garage is not less than ten feet from any side or rear lot line; provided, however, where the
Director of Planning or the Planning Commission finds that no hazard to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic will be created thereby, a private garage may be built to the street lines if the slope of the
half of the lot or building site abutting the street is greater than one-foot rise or fall in seven feet
from the established street elevation, or if the elevation of such half of the lot or building site is
more than four feet above or below the existing street elevation or the established street grade,
provided such garage is not less than ten feet from any side or rear lot line.
2. With respect to detached accessory buildings and swimming pools, no
side yard in excess of five feet need be maintained along the rear one- half of any interior side
18. 58 ( 12) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
lot line or along that portion of any interior side lot line which is at least 50 feet from the rear line
of the required front yard.
D. They may be constructed in a required rear yard except as follows:
1. They shall not occupy more than 50 percent of the area of any required
rear yard, nor be located less than five feet from the rear or the side lot line.
2. In the case of a corner lot, they may occupy only the interior one- half of
the required rear yard exclusive of the interior side yard.
3. In an A- 1 zone, no accessory buildings or structures, except a fence, shall
be constructed within a required rear yard.
E. All two- story accessory buildings must comply with the setbacks within the zone
which are applicable to the primary structure.
Prior Code Appendix A 2136; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18.58.280 Light Poles
Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, in the O- P, C- 1, C-2, C- 3 and M- 1 zones,
lights on poles may be placed within the established setback line, upon the following conditions:
A. Lights shall be used for the purpose of illumination only, and not designed for or
used as an advertising display.
B. Lights shall be at least 12 feet above the ground.
C. Light fixtures shall be so designed and adjusted as to reflect light away from any
road or street, and away from any adjoining premises on which a dwelling is located or which is
zoned for other than business or industrial uses.
D. Lights shall be on a single pole which does not exceed 14 inches in diameter.
E. Such poles shall be at least 50 feet apart; provided, however, two poles may be
located on each building site.
F. Poles and lights shall be removed at the owner's expense when property on
which they are located is taken for street widening.
Prior Code Appendix A 2137)
Section 18. 58.290 Building Structure Projections
Cornices, eaves, belt courses, water tables, sills, buttresses, capitals, bases and
fireplaces may extend or project not more than two feet into any required front, side or rear yard,
except when a building' s eaves or overhang is used for the purpose of passive building cooling
by screening the sun, in which case the projection may extend to within six inches of the
property line in commercial or industrial zones, or not closer than 15 feet from the front property
line or five feet from the side or rear property lines in all other zones.
Prior Code Appendix A 2138)
Section 18. 58.300 Buena Vista Creek Special Setback
A. Intent and Purpose. The City and various private landowners are desirous of
preserving the Buena Vista Creek environmental resources. Programs are now being
investigated which could substantially affect the ultimate creek width, depth and flow
characteristics. Therefore, this section is necessary to protect creek environment preservation
options until a specific plan ordinance is prepared addressing a comprehensive plan and
program for these resources.
B. This section applies to all property located within 100 feet of the existing stream
centerline of Buena Vista Creek for that portion between Escondido Avenue and Vale Terrace,
18. 58 ( 13) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
near Ponderosa Drive. Prior to grading or building permit issuance, the following consideration
and determinations shall be addressed:
1. Site improvements, structures and any change in existing natural ground
surface shall be restricted within a setback of 50 feet measured from the creek centerline,
unless approved in conformance with proposed legislation.
2. Existing mature trees shall be protected and preserved. Removal and
trimming may be allowed as recommended by a licensed expert and under his direction as
approved by the Director of Community Services.
3. The property owner shall record a covenant not to oppose the formation
of the Buena Vista Creek Improvement District. Such document to be in a format approved by the
City Attorney.
4. Easements for open space or drainage may be required to preserve
future creek improvement options.
Prior Code Appendix A 2139)
Section 18. 58.310 Roofed Patio Projections
Roofed, but otherwise unenclosed patios, which are attached to and a part of the main
building may extend or project into the required rear yard; provided, that such patio, together
with all detached accessory buildings, shall not exceed 50 percent of the area of the required
yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 2140)
Section 18. 58.320 Fire Escape Projections
A fire escape may extend or project into any required rear and side yard not more than
three feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 2141)
Section 18. 58.330 Stairway Projections
An open, unenclosed stairway not covered by a roof or canopy may extend or project into
a required rear or side yard not more than three feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 2142)
Section 18. 58.340 Uncovered Porch and Platform Projections - Side or Rear Yards
An uncovered, unenclosed porch, platform or landing place which does not extend above
the level of the first floor of the building may extend or project into any required side or rear yard
not more than three feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 2143)
Section 18. 58.350 Uncovered Porch and Platform Projections - Front Yards.
An uncovered, unenclosed porch, platform or landing place which does not extend above
the level of the first floor of the building, may project or extend into any required front yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 2144)
18. 58 ( 14) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 58.360 Guard Railing Projections
Guard railings for safety protection around depressed ramps, open-work fences, hedges
or landscape architectural features not more than 42 inches in height may be located in any
required front, side or rear yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 2145)
Section 18.58.370 Fences and Walls
Fences and walls are permitted in any zone subject to the following conditions:
A. No fence or wall shall be permitted on any public or private easement that has
been granted for road purposes, excepting that fences and walls may be placed in any fee strip
which serves only one lot and over which there is no road easement access.
B. Fences or walls are permitted on other easements subject to the other provisions
of this section, provided easement holders of record have given written permission for such fence
or wall.
C. Fences or walls are permitted anywhere on a building site, except as set forth in
Subsections A and B of this section, subject to the following height limits:
1. Any fence or wall placed within any required main building setback from
any public or private road easement shall have a maximum height of 60 inches if the fence or wall
is not a solid fence or wall or 42 inches in height if the fence or wall is a solid fence or wall. For
the purposes of this section, " solid fence or wall' means any fence or wall which is less than 90
percent transparent.
2. Any fence or wall placed anywhere on the lot, except as set forth in
Subsection ( C)( 1) of this section, may not exceed ten feet.
D. Fences or walls shall maintain a minimum separation of three feet anywhere on a
building site unless waived by the City Planner.
Prior Code Appendix A 2146; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 58.380 Trees, Shrubs, Flowers and Plants
Trees, shrubs, flowers and plants shall be permitted in any yard, except that no hedge
shall be grown or maintained at a height greater than that permitted by this title for a solid fence or
wall.
Prior Code Appendix A 2147)
Section 18. 58.390 Areas Applied to Rear Yard Depth
Where a rear yard opens onto an alley or public park or beach, one-half of the width of
such alley, public park or beach may be considered as applying to the depth of the rear yard to
the extent of not more than 50 percent of the depth of the required rear yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 2148)
Section 18. 58.400 Minimum Area Requirements to be Maintained
A. No portion of the required area of any lot or building site shall be used or
considered as part of the required area for any other lot or building site.
B. No lot or building site shall be reduced in size so that the area thereof is less than
the minimum prescribed by this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 2149)
18. 58 ( 15) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 58.410 Minimum Area Requirements - Building Restrictions
A. Every main building hereafter erected shall be located upon a lot or building site
having at least the required minimum area, and in no case shall there be more than one main
building and its accessory buildings or a permitted group of buildings and their accessory
buildings on one lot or building site except as in this title provided.
B. Any building which is the only building on a lot or building site is a main building
unless authorized by variance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2150)
Section 18. 58.420 Minimum Area Requirements - When Portion Acquired for Public Use
If a portion of a legally existing lot or parcel of land in any zoning district is acquired for
public use in any manner including dedication, condemnation or purchase, the remainder of such
lot or parcel shall be considered as having the required minimum building site area, provided:
A. After all applicable front and side yard requirements are met, and after at least
one- half of the applicable rear yard requirement is met, the remainder of such lot or parcel
contains a rectangular space at least 30 feet by 40 feet in size which is usable for a main
building.
B. The remainder of such lot or parcel has an area of at least one- half of that
required for a building site in the zoning district in which the lot or parcel is located, except that
in a zoning district requiring a building site area of one- half acre or more, a building site of not
less than 6, 000 square feet shall be required.
C. The remainder of such lot or parcel has access to a street. Where the remainder
of such lot or parcel shall be considered as having the required minimum building site area as
herein provided, the rear yard for such remainder shall be one- half of the applicable rear yard
requirement set out in this section.
Prior Code Appendix A 2151)
Section 18. 58.430 Reduction of Lots Having No More than Minimum Required Area
No lot shall be reduced in size where the area of such lot is no greater than the minimum
area required for a lot in the zone in which it is located except when such reduction results from
partial acquisition for public use.
Prior Code Appendix A 2152)
Section 18. 58.440 Reduction of Lots Below Minimum Required Area
No lot shall be reduced in size so that the area thereof is less than the minimum required
area for a lot in the zone in which such lot is located, except when such reduction results from
partial acquisition for public use.
Prior Code Appendix A 2153)
Section 18. 58.450 Minimum Area Requirements - When Portion Acquired for Street
Widening
If a portion of a parcel of land in any zoning district is acquired for street widening
required or requested by the City, and such parcel of land had adequate area to allow a division of
such parcel into two, three or four parcels, each having an area equal to that required for the zone
in which it is located, the remainder of such parcel of land shall be considered as having an
18. 58 ( 16) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
adequate area for division into the same number of parcels, provided each remaining lot or parcel
has an area of at least three-fourths of that required for a building site in the zoning district.
Prior Code Appendix A 2153. 1)
Section 18. 58.460 Reduction of Lots Designated for Public Use
Where a lot or building site is devoted exclusively to public buildings and uses owned by a
city, county, city and county, municipality, other political subdivision or to public utility buildings
and uses, and no living quarters are located on such lot or parcel, a special use permit may be
issued authorizing a reduction in the minimum required area for such lot or building site.
Prior Code Appendix A 2154)
Section 18. 58.470 Location of Animal and Poultry Structures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 18. 58.270, no pen, coop, stable, barn, kennel,
corral or similar structure used for the keeping of poultry or animals shall be erected, placed or
maintained:
A. Within 20 feet of any dwelling on the same lot or parcel of land.
B. Within 75 feet of any front lot line.
C. Within 75 feet of any side street or closer to any side street line than a distance
equal to one- half of the width of the lot or building site abutting such side street, whichever
distance is the lesser.
D. Within 15 feet of any interior side lot line.
E. Within ten feet of any rear lot line; provided, however, where the rear lot line is
parallel with and contiguous to an alley such structures may be erected, placed or maintained up
to such rear lot line, except that this provision shall not authorize the erection, placement or
maintenance of any accessory building or structure in the rear yard of an agricultural zone.
Prior Code Appendix A 2156)
Section 18. 58.475 Tobacco Stores Prohibited within 1, 000 Feet of a School
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section of this title, or the provisions of any
specific plan, no tobacco store shall be located within 1, 000 feet of a public or private elementary
or secondary school.
Ord. No. 1997- 12, Enacted, 06/ 10/ 97)
Section 18. 58.480 Home Occupations
No occupation, as defined by Section 18. 02. 335, shall be conducted in any residential,
mixed- use, estate, agricultural, or open space zoning district, except as may be permitted by a
duly issued home occupation permit. The City Planner, or duly authorized representative, may
issue such a permit upon submittal of a written application. Such permit shall state the home
occupation to be permitted, the location, all necessary conditions, and any specific limitations
thereon. The permit shall be issued only if the City Planner is satisfied that the applicant is able
to comply with all conditions contained in this section, and the applicant has agreed in writing to
comply with such conditions during the effective period of the home occupation permit.
A. Limitations and Conditions. In general, a home occupation is an accessory
activity or secondary use so located and conducted that the average neighbor, under normal
circumstances, would not be aware of its existence. The limitations and conditions for home
occupation in this section are intended to ensure compatibility with other permitted activities or
uses and with the residential character of the neighborhood; thus, home occupations are
18. 58 ( 17) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
permitted accessory activities or secondary uses in residential zoning districts only as long as all
limitations and conditions listed herein are complied with.
1. Such occupation shall be conducted solely by persons who occupy the
home as their sole residence. The occupation shall occur in no more than one room or 25
percent of the gross floor area of one floor of such residence, whichever is less.
2. No use shall require internal or external building alterations or involve onsite
construction related activities, including land clearing or grading activities.
3. No mechanical or electrical devices, equipment or tools shall be
permitted, except those items which are commonly associated with residential use or use
related to home crafts.
4. No home occupation shall cause a significant increase in the use of utility
services or public facilities as reasonably determined by the City Planner. Under no
circumstances, shall a five percent or greater increase be considered insignificant in any of the
utilities.
5. There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to the home
occupation, including the parking or storage of vehicles identified with the business either on the
site ( out in the open) or on any public or private road. The work vehicle, regardless of it being
used as private vehicle, must be parked or stored within a structure at all times and have a
payload of one ton or less. The work vehicle can be used for storage of materials directly
related to the operation of the home occupation. Any storage confined within a garage shall not
interfere with the original intended use of a garage, that is, for parking purposes. If additional
storage space is needed, the applicant shall secure an off-site location for storage purposes and
provide the City with a copy of the associated lease agreement along with the home occupation
application.
6. The use may not increase pedestrian or vehicular traffic flow or increase
parking demand in excess of the normal expected residential demand in the surrounding area.
The delivery of materials or goods to and from the location of a home occupation shall be limited
to normal business hours as determined by the City Planner, with the exception of deliveries
associated with the residential use.
7. No use shall be disruptive to the residential neighborhood and create
noise, dust, vibration, smell, smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard or other hazard or
nuisance to any greater or more frequent extent than that usually experienced in an average
residential occupancy in the district in question under normal circumstances wherein no home
occupation exists. The use and/ or storage of hazardous materials shall be limited to small
quantities of household hazardous materials. Storage of large quantities of hazardous materials
or substances, or the storage of acutely hazardous materials or substances is not permitted.
Quantity and type of hazardous materials or substances shall be at the discretion of the Fire
Marshal.
8. No commercial advertising or identification shall be displayed on the
premises except that expressly permitted by Chapter 18. 52.
9. The home occupation shall be so located and conducted in such a
manner that the outward appearance of the residence gives no indication of activities or uses
other than those normally associated with a residential activity or use. In addition, the activity or
use is not detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood in which it is located, and
the activity or use does not create either a public or private nuisance.
10. Sale and display of goods shall not be conducted on the property, except
for agricultural goods grown on the premises. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit
taking sales orders where delivery of goods is not made from the property.
11. The employment of permanent or temporary workers not living at the site
is prohibited.
12. Instructional services may be performed as a home occupation when
18. 58 ( 18) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
conducted on an individual basis ( with a maximum of four students per day), excluding
instruction of electronically amplified and percussion instruments. No group instructions of any
kind shall be allowed as a home occupation.
13. All home occupations involving mobile water use, such as pressure
washing, auto detailing and pet grooming shall be subject to obtaining a mobile water use
permit in addition to a home occupation permit per this section. These uses shall be permitted
as mobile uses only and all associated services shall be provided at the customer's location.
No pressure washing, auto detailing, pet grooming or other associated services shall be
performed at the address of the home occupation permit.
14. Mobile windshield repair and automobile dent repair shall be permitted as
home occupations. These uses shall be permitted as mobile uses only and all associated
services shall be provided at the customer's location. No vehicles may be brought to the
address of the home occupation permit to perform any services. All other mobile repair services
are prohibited.
15. Multiple home occupation permits at a residence shall not create any
cumulative impacts to the surrounding area that are greater than those associated with a single
home occupation permit. A complete home occupation permit shall be issued for each business
license.
16. No sale or repair of any kind related to firearms or explosives will be
allowed as a home occupation.
17. All on- site automotive repair work is prohibited as a home occupation.
18. No medical services are allowed as a home occupation.
19. Customers or clients of licensed professionals ( i. e. accountants,
attorneys, architects, engineers) may come to the site of the home occupation from 9: 00 a.m. to
5:00 p. m., where no more than two customers at a time may come to the site, with a maximum
of four customers per day. In addition, customers associated with agricultural goods grown and
sold on the premises are also permitted to come to the home occupation site. No other
customers, including general retail/ commercial services customers, may come to the site of the
home occupation use.
20. The City Planner may establish other limitations and/ or conditions as may
be deemed reasonably necessary in order to accomplish the intent of this section as it may relate
to specific activities or uses and locations.
B. Application Procedure.
1. Application for a home occupation permit shall be made to the City Planner
on a form provided by the Planning Division and shall be accompanied by such fee(s) as may
be established by resolution of the City Council. The application shall be submitted concurrently
with a business license application.
2. Upon receipt of the application, the City Planner shall review it for
compliance with the established criteria, establish such additional limitations as deemed
necessary, and approve or disapprove it. Should the City Planner deny the application, it shall
be returned with a written justification of the action. Within ten days of the written notification of
denial, an appeal may be filed with the Director of Community Development presenting
substantial evidence on why the denial should not take place. The decision of the Director is
final and non- appealable.
3. Revocation of a home occupation permit may be executed by the City
Planner if a determination is made that the applicant has failed to comply with one or more of the
limitations or conditions established in approving the permit. Written notice of this determination
shall be provided with a termination no earlier than 30 days from date of notice. Within ten days
of the written notification of the determination to revoke the home occupation permit, an appeal
may be filed with the Director of Community Development presenting substantial evidence on
why the revocation should not take place. The decision of the Director is final and non-
18. 58 ( 19) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
appealable.
C. Business License Requirements. A home occupation permit is not a business
license and does not relieve the applicant of the responsibility for obtaining such license. The
home occupation permit shall not relieve the holder of any other requirement of the law, code or
ordinances of the City pertaining to business licenses and business tax liabilities. A business
license is not a permit to allow a home occupation use and the issuance of a business license
does not waive the requirements of this section.
Prior Code Appendix A 2160; Ord. No. 1991- 18, Amended, 7/ 9/ 91; Ord. No. 2001- 6, Amended, 3/ 27/ 01;
Ord. No. 2009- 2, Amended, 1/ 13/ 09; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18.58.490 Outdoor Swimming Pool
An outdoor swimming pool, including an in- ground, aboveground or on-ground pool, hot
tub, spa or portable spa, shall be provided with a barrier which shall comply with the following:
1. The top of the barrier shall be at least 60 inches above grade measured on the
side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool and shall be constructed to
withstand the forces outlined in the Uniform Building Code. The maximum vertical clearance
between grade and the bottom of the barrier shall be two inches measured on the side of the
barrier which faces
away from the swimming pool. Where the top of the pool structure is above grade, such as an
aboveground pool, the barrier may be at ground level, such as the pool structure, or mounted on
top of the pool structure. Where the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, the
maximum vertical clearance between the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier
shall be four inches.
2. Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four- inch diameter sphere.
3. Solid barriers which do not have openings, such as masonry or stone walls, shall
not contain indentations or protrusions except for tooled masonry joints.
4. Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the
distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than 45 inches, the horizontal
members shall be located on the swimming pool side of the fence. Spacing between vertical
members shall not exceed two inches in width. Where there are decorative cutouts within
vertical members, spacing within the cutouts shall not exceed two inches in width.
5. Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and the
distance between the tops of the horizontal members is 45 inches or more, spacing between
vertical members shall not exceed four inches. Where there are decorative cutouts within vertical
members, spacing within the cutouts shall not exceed two inches in width.
6. Maximum mesh size for chain link fences shall be a two- inch square. The wire
shall not be less than 11%2 gauge.
7. Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, such as a lattice fence, the
maximum opening formed by the diagonal members shall be no more than two inches.
8. Access gates shall comply with the requirements of items one through seven and
shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device no less than 54 inches above grade.
Pedestrian-access gates shall open outward away from the pool and shall be self-closing and
have a self-latching device. Gates other than pedestrian access gates shall comply with the
requirements of items one through seven and shall be equipped with a locking device.
9. Where an aboveground pool structure is used as a barrier or where the barrier is
mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of access is a ladder or steps, then ( 1) the
ladder or steps shall be capable of being secured, locked or removed to prevent access, or (2) the
ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier which meets the requirements of items one
through nine. When the ladder or steps are secured, locked or removed, any opening created
shall not allow the passage of a four-inch- diameter sphere.
18. 58 (20) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
10. Hot tubs, spas and portable spas located outdoors and not exceeding 64 square
feet may have rigid pool covers equipped with a permanent locking and latching device in lieu of
the barrier required by this section.
11. Where unusual circumstances exist that make strict enforcement of one through
ten impractical, the building official may grant modifications for individual cases per Section 106 of
the Uniform Building Code.
Prior Code Appendix A 2161; Ord. No. 1996- 7, Amended, 05/ 14/ 96)
Section 18. 58.500 Satellite Antennas
A. Purpose and Intent.
1. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish reasonable and
uniform standards for the installation of satellite antennas within the city. This section shall be
used by the general public, the development services center, the Zoning Administrator and the
Board of Appeals in considering plans and applications for satellite antennas. Plans shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator (Director of Planning) in accordance with the provisions of
Section 18. 74.260.
2. Intent. It is intended that these standards be utilized to effectively screen
satellite antennas so that they shall not be intrusive to residential and commercial or industrial
landscapes or be utilized for purposes other than their designed function, such as commercial
signs advertising a dealer's place of business, nor should they interfere with the direct line of
sight reception of such antennas.
B. Permitted Antennas. Satellite antennas, as defined in Section 18. 02. 080, are
permitted as accessory uses in all zoning districts subject to the provisions of the applicable
zoning district regulations, those contained in this section and the issuance of a satellite
antenna permit. Deviations from these regulations may be permitted by a satellite antenna
permit issued in accordance with the provisions of Section 18. 74.260.
1. A satellite antenna shall be an accessory use of the subject property.
2. Satellite antennas shall be ground mounted.
3. Satellite antennas shall not be permitted on properties which have been
designated as historic sites.
4. Satellite antennas shall be located in the rear 40 percent of the subject
building site, exclusive of side street side yards.
5. Satellite antennas shall comply with the minimum yard requirements of
the applicable zoning district regulations.
6. Satellite antennas shall not exceed a height of 15 feet.
7. Satellite antennas shall only be located on lots or building sites where a
minimum six-foot-high solid fence, wall or hedge exists or is installed between an antenna and the
property line, or on the property line.
C. Exceptions. A satellite antenna that does not have a dish element, that is
generally circular and reflective and has a diameter, or its equivalent, of less than two feet is not
subject to the requirements of this section.
D. Design Standards. The design standards set forth in this subsection shall be
used in evaluating the placement of antennas in all zoning districts. The reviewing authority
may approve alternative locations and screening if they substantially comply with the purpose
and intent of this section.
1. Antennas shall be screened so that not more than 25 percent of the
antenna height is visible at grade from any public property or rights- of-way.
a. Screening for ground- mounted mesh antennas shall be achieved
by utilization of one of the following: existing or proposed structures ( which may be solid fence or
18. 58 (21) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
wall), plant materials, earth berms or earth depressions. If the antennas are of a solid ( opaque)
material, two of the screening methods in Subsection ( D) ( 1) shall be utilized.
b. Screening for roof-mounted antennas, and pole mounts which
extend to the roof, shall be achieved by recessing the antennas into the roof line, or by
constructing a screen of similarly textured roofing or exterior wall material. Roof-mounted
antennas, when visible from public properties, including rights- of-way, at significantly higher
elevations, shall not exceed the highest point of the roof of the structure.
2. All antennas shall be similar in color and tone to adjacent screening
and/ or blend with adjacent landscaping; for example, in the case of roof-mounted antennas, this
shall be the color of the roofing material. In most cases, mesh antennas are preferred over solid
opaque) antennas.
3. Antennas shall not contain advertising copy or constitute signage of any
kind.
4. Antennas shall not be located within any required parking area(s).
5. Antennas on properties subject to the scenic preservation overlay zoning
district regulations shall be totally screened from view so as not to detract from the appearance
of the building site.
E. Development Standards. Satellite antennas shall comply with all development
standards of the applicable zoning district regulations ( yard requirements, coverages, etc.) and
those set forth in this section. Where there is a conflict between district standards and those
established in this section, the more restrictive shall apply.
1. Residential Zoning Districts. Antennas shall be subject to the following:
a. Installation in front and side street yards is prohibited.
b. Antennas shall comply with the coverage requirements of the
subject zoning district regulations where applicable. The method of calculation shall be based
upon the area of the dish.
C. When roof-mounted, the total height of the antenna and its related
screening structure shall not exceed the height limitations as established by the applicable zoning
district regulations.
d. Antennas shall comply with the screening standards established in
this section. When mounted on the roof, antennas shall comply with the screening
requirements for commercial and industrial zoning districts. When mounted on a pole which
extends the full height of the adjacent structure, antennas shall comply with the intent of the
screening for roof-mounted antennas.
2. Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts. Antennas shall be subject to
the following:
a. Antennas shall comply with the yard regulations of the applicable
zoning district.
b. Antennas shall comply with the coverage requirements of the
subject zoning district regulations where applicable. The method of calculations shall be based
upon the area of the dish.
C. When roof-mounted, the total height of the antenna and its related
screening structure shall not exceed the height limitations as established by the applicable zoning
district regulations.
d. Antennas shall comply with the screening standards established in
this section; however, roof-mounted antennas shall be screened so that only the upper 25
percent of their height projects above the screening. When mounted on a pole which extends
the full height of the adjacent structure, antennas shall comply with the intent of the screening for
roof-mounted antennas.
F. Nonconforming Antennas. Nonconforming satellite antennas erected prior to the
effective date of the amendment codified in this section shall be brought into compliance with all
18. 58 (22) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
development standards of the applicable zoning district regulations ( yard requirements,
coverages, etc.) and those set forth in this section no later than one year after said effective
date.
Prior Code Appendix A 2162)
Section 18. 58.510 Radio and Television Reception Antennas-Maximum Height
No radio or television reception antennas shall exceed the height of 65 feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 2162)
Section 18. 58.520 Amateur Radio Antennas - Maximum Height
The height of radio structures for licensed amateur radio operations may be 72 feet or 20
feet higher than any adjacent radio or television reception antenna, whichever is higher, except
that no such amateur broadcast antenna shall exceed the height of 100 feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 2164)
Section 18. 58.530 Commercial Radio and Television Broadcast Antennas - Maximum
Height
The height of commercial radio and television broadcast antennas may be established as
a condition of a requisite special or minor use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2165)
Section 18. 58.540 Restrictions on Land Use
No land within the corporate limits of the city shall be used for any of the following
purposes, except as authorized by Chapter 8.28 of this code:
A. The storage of junk.
B. The operation of a motor vehicle salvage yard, except in the M- 1 zone with a
special use permit.
C. Storage of non- operating motor vehicles, except in the M- 1 zone with a special
use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2167)
Section 18.58.550 Minimum Residential Building Area
Every residential building which contains dwelling units less than 1500 square feet in
enclosed floor area hereafter erected, installed, moved or placed within any zone in the city in
which dwelling units are authorized, shall have a total enclosed floor area under a common roof
equal to not less than the following:
A. Studio apartment units, 400 square feet.
B. One-bedroom dwelling units in a multiple dwelling, 700 square feet.
C. One-bedroom dwelling units in a single- family or duplex dwelling, 800 square
feet.
D. Two-bedroom dwelling units:
1. Apartment dwelling units, 880 square feet.
2. Duplex dwelling units, 920 square feet.
3. Single-family dwelling units, 980 square feet.
E. Three-bedroom dwelling units:
1. Apartment dwelling units, 1160 square feet.
18. 58 (23) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Duplex dwelling units, 1160 square feet.
3. Single-family dwelling units, 1160 square feet.
F. Dwelling units with more than three bedrooms, applicable area for three
bedrooms plus 150 square feet for each additional bedroom.
G. Minimum residential building areas may be modified as an express condition of
the approval of a Site Development Plan or Plot Plan by the Planning Commission or City
Council at a public hearing to further implement the goals and objectives of the City' s General
Plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2169; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18.58.560 Bedroom Defined
For purposes of determining square footage requirements, calculations of fees and other
requirements based on the number of bedrooms, each dwelling unit shall be deemed to have only
one living room and one kitchen and all other rooms shall be deemed to be bedrooms except for
the following:
A. Bathrooms as defined in the Uniform Building Code.
B. Storage or utility rooms that are not large enough to be habitable under
provisions of the Uniform Building Code.
C. Additional rooms designed as family rooms, dens, dining rooms or libraries,
provided such additional rooms have at least one- half of a common wall open and unobstructed
to the living room or kitchen of the same unit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2170)
Section 18. 58.570 Transit Shelters and Bus Benches
A. Purpose. The requirements of this section are ordained for the purposes of
revenue and regulation under the general powers granted to the City by state law.
B. Permit Required. No transit shelter or bus bench shall be placed, constructed or
maintained within any public right-of-way, or on any private property, within the city except
pursuant to this section. The placement or construction of transit shelters (" shelters") and bus
benches ("benches") on public or private property shall require and be subject to the issuance of a
transit shelter license and agreement ("Permit' by the City.
1. Licensee Defined. For the purposes of this section, " licensee" means a
person or organization that holds a permit for one or more bus benches or transit shelters issued
pursuant to this section.
2. Permit Issuance. The license permit may be issued for single bus
benches and transit shelters or multiple bus benches and transit shelters. If the permit is issued
for multiple benches or shelters, each bench or shelter must be specified on the permit. The
permit shall supersede the need for an encroachment permit, building permit and/ or site
development plan. The City Engineer is authorized to issue or deny the license permit and to
execute the agreement on behalf of the City.
3. Notice. Prior to issuing the permit, the City Engineer shall give notice in
the following manner:
a. Notice shall be sent to all property owners whose property lies
within 50 feet of any proposed bench or shelter. Notice shall be given at least ten calendar days
prior to the decision on the permit. Anyone who objects to the issuance of the permit shall be
provided notice of the decision of the City Engineer within three days of such decision.
4. Appeal. The decision of the City Engineer may be appealed pursuant to
Section 18. 04. 150.
5. Permit Requirements.
18. 58 (24) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
a. A plan showing the location of each bus bench and transit shelter
and all existing and future rights- of-way.
b. Detailed plans and specifications of the bench or shelter showing
all materials of construction and that the method of construction conforms to the applicable
provisions of the Uniform Building Code in effect within the city.
C. Detailed engineering plans showing all modifications and changes
to any public way, private way, drainage way or grading, and such other information as is required
by the City Engineer.
d. Performance bond as required hereafter.
e. Payment of all fees, costs and permit charges regularly assessed
by the City.
1) Fees and other compensation. Prior to issuance of any
permit, for the purpose of defraying the cost of review and issuance of such permit, the
applicant shall deposit with the City all fees, performance guarantees and other compensation
as set forth in the agreement, and provide all certificates of insurance required by the agreement
as approved by the Risk Manager.
2) Further fees and bonds. Prior to issuance of the permit or
as otherwise required by the City, the applicant shall provide liability guarantee to the City as
required by Chapter 19. 16 of the City Code with regard to encroachment. The applicant shall
also provide guarantees for all construction in the public right-of-way as required by the City
Engineer.
3) Annual business tax. For the purpose of revenue to the
City, in addition to the fees and charges collected for the purpose of regulation, the licensee
shall be subject to, and shall pay to the City, the amount of such license fee and in such manner
as may be provided from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
6. Term of permit. The term of a permit shall commence at 12: 01 a.m. on
the 11th day following the issuance of the permit by the City and shall continue for a term set in
the permit, but not more than five years, unless previously terminated, as hereafter provided or a
transfer of title or control of the shelter has occurred. In the event of any transfer of title to the
bench or shelter, the license permit for such bench or shelter shall immediately lapse. It is the
responsibility of the person to whom the bus bench or transit shelter is to be transferred to apply
for and obtain a new permit. An application for transfer of license shall be made not less than
30 days prior to such transfer.
7. Renewal. Licensee may apply for renewal of permit in the same manner
as an original application. Renewal applications shall be filed not less than 90 or more than 180
days prior to expiration of the existing permit.
8. Termination.
a. Grounds for revocation. The City reserves the right to revoke any
permit granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated with the permit in the
following circumstances, each of which shall represent a default and breach of the permit:
1) If the licensee should default in the performance of any of
its material obligations under this section or under such documents, contracts and other terms
and provisions entered into by and between the City and the licensee.
2) If the licensee should fail to provide or maintain in full force
and effect the liability and indemnification coverages or the performance bonds as required in this
section.
3) If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any
material provision of the permit documents, including this section, is invalid or unenforceable.
4) If the licensee ceases to provide services for any reason
within the control of the licensee. The licensee shall not be declared at fault or be subject to any
action under any provision of this section in any case in which performance of any such
18. 58 (25) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
provision is prevented for reasons beyond the licensee' s control. Fault shall not be deemed to
be beyond the licensee' s control if committed by a corporation or other business entity in which
the licensee holds a controlling interest, whether held directly or indirectly.
5) If the licensee attempts to evade any of the provisions of
this section or the permit agreement or practices any fraud or deceit upon the City.
6) The licensee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay
its debts, or is adjudged bankrupt.
b. Procedure prior to revocation.
1) The City may make written demand that the licensee
comply with any such requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule or regulation or correct any
action deemed cause for revocation. If the failure, refusal or neglect of the licensee continues
for a period of 30 days following such written demand, the City may place its request for
termination of the permit upon a regular Council agenda. The City shall cause to be served
upon such licensee, at least ten days prior to the date of such Council meeting, a written notice
of this intent to request such termination, and the time and place of the meeting.
2) The Council shall hear any person interested therein, and
shall determine, in its discretion, whether or not any failure, refusal or neglect by the licensee
was with just cause.
3) If such failure, refusal or neglect by the licensee was with
just cause, the Council shall direct the licensee to comply within such time and manner and
upon such terms and conditions as the Council determines.
4) If the Council shall determine such failure, refusal or
neglect by the licensee was without just cause, then the Council may, by resolution, declare that
the permit of such licensee shall be terminated and bond forfeited.
C. Disposition of Facilities. In the event a permit expires, is revoked,
or otherwise terminated, the City may order the removal of the shelters and benches, or require
the original licensee to maintain and operate the shelters and benches until a subsequent
licensee is selected or the permit is transferred.
d. City' s right not affected. The termination and forfeiture of any
permit shall in no way affect any of the rights of the City under the permit or any provision of
law.
C. Extent of Permit.
1. Territory. The City may grant a permit for all or any defined bus stop
locations in the City. The service area shall include all bus stops defined in the permit
agreement.
2. Not exclusive permit. The rights granted in this section are not exclusive,
and during the term of a permit, City may grant to any other company or individual the right to
install benches or shelters within its corporate limits.
3. Permit license and agreement. The permit shall take the form of a license
and an agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of the license including an arrangement
for revenue to be paid to the City from advertising on the benches or shelters. The agreement
will include all applicable terms of the license. Signing of the agreement by the City issues the
license. Signing of the agreement by the applicant is acceptance of all terms of the license.
D. General requirements. The following shall be required for all bus benches and
transit shelters:
1. The bench or shelter's material shall reflect a responsible and compatible
design with the surrounding area.
2. The installation shall be plumb, level, true, neat and rigid in every respect,
and in accordance with engineering drawings and specifications.
18. 58 (26) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
3. All benches or shelters shall be on concrete pads with the concrete
extending from the shelter to the back of curb if applicable. Installation of sidewalk approach
and ramps to such bench or shelter may be necessary as determined by the City Engineer.
4. The installation base shall be a relatively smooth and level concrete floor
with no more than about one and one- half percent to two percent cross slope and no ( or slight)
longitudinal slope. Other slope specifications may be approved for reasons of drainage or
structural integrity.
5. Where installation of benches or shelters requires the disturbing of
existing pavement, excavation and restoration of pavement shall be performed in a manner
satisfactory to the City Engineer. Any necessary removal of existing sidewalk shall be taken to
the nearest scoreline unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
6. Before any excavation for trench work or for foundation work is to begin,
the existing sidewalk shall be sawcut in order to provide a neat excavation and restoration.
7. Where existing curbing is found to be in a condition and presents no
hazard to bus stop users, such curbing shall not be disturbed during the installation of the bench
or shelter. Conduit shall be passed under the curb in a manner that does not affect the curbing.
8. Where existing curbing is found to be in a condition that presents a
potential hazard to bus stop users, such curbing shall be repaired or replaced by the licensee
concurrently with construction of the bench or shelter. All aspects of this work shall comply with
City Engineer standard specifications and all details of the work shall be shown on the plans.
9. Electrical and telephone service lines shall be underground, except as
waived by the City Engineer.
10. Immediately prior to acceptance of the bench or shelter by the City, the
licensee shall clean the entire shelter or bench in strict accordance with various materials
manufacturers' directions.
11. The licensee shall remove all excess materials and restore the work area
to its original condition.
12. If the licensee' s work results in any damage to utilities, street furniture,
vegetation or private property, it will be his responsibility to restore or repair the damaged items or
properties so that they will be in the original, or better, condition. Any costs involved will be
borne solely by the licensee.
13. Any of the provisions of this subdivision may be waived by the City at its
sole discretion.
14. Licensee shall install and maintain trash receptacles next to the benches.
15. Time of installation. Licensee shall install the bench or shelter within 60
days from and after the date of issuance of permit and shall install each remaining authorized
bench or shelter within successive 15 periods from each preceding date for installation. Time is
of the essence in the installation of benches or shelters.
16. Licensee shall comply with each of the following requirements:
a. Such bench or shelter shall have displayed, in a conspicuous
place thereon, the name, address and telephone number of licensee.
b. Licensee shall, at its sole expense, maintain such bench or shelter
in a neat, attractive, safe and sanitary manner at all times during the term of this permit or any
extension thereof. Routine maintenance and cleaning, including emptying of trash receptacles
and related services, shall be provided for the bench or shelter at least twice per week. Any
damaged, defective, defaced or worn out part of the bench or shelter shall be repaired or
replaced by licensee within 48 hours following discovery thereof by licensee or receipt of notice
thereof by licensee from City, whichever is earlier; provided, however, that any condition which,
in the opinion of the City Engineer, constitutes a safety hazard shall be corrected, repaired,
replaced or removed by licensee immediately upon notification thereof by City. In the event
licensee fails to repair or replace such bench or shelter within the time herein specified, City
18. 58 (27) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
may at its sole discretion, cause the repair or removal of the bench or shelter and apply
licensee's cash deposit toward the cost thereof, in whole or part. Any costs not so applied shall
be paid directly to City by licensee within ten days following receipt by licensee of an invoice
therefore.
17. Removal for public improvements. Licensee shall remove any bench or
shelter which will interfere in any way with the construction, maintenance or repairs of any public
utilities, public works or public improvements of any description, and restore the respective
sidewalks and curbs to their proper and original condition, if so required by City. The cost and
expense of such removal and restoration shall be borne by licensee and such other requirements
as may be required by City.
18. Bus stop signs shall be incorporated into the shelter design in order to
identify the location as an authorized bus stop. Shelters shall also include route information of
the North County Transit District or other scheduled common carrier for passenger use.
19. Shelter shall be a least three feet by seven feet with seating space. A
minimum two-foot overhang should be provided to increase passenger protection from sun and
rain.
E. Private Property. The following additional requirements and provisions shall
apply to bus benches and/ or transit shelters on private property:
1. Applications for the construction of benches or shelter on private property
shall be accompanied by a written statement from the property owner, or his authorized agent,
that the owner has given consent to the placement of said bench or shelter.
2. Shelters or benches placed in a commercial or industrial center's parking
area may be utilized to reduce the number of required off-street parking spaces at a ratio of one
parking space for each 325 square feet of space occupied by the shelter and its related transit
service area.
3. Transit shelters or bus benches may not be placed in a commercial or
industrial parking area unless said parking area is subject to public parking and traffic control in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 21107. 8 of the California Vehicle Code.
F. Locational requirements.
1. All bus benches and/ or transit shelters shall be placed only at transit bus
stops or other scheduled places as defined by the North County Transit District, or other
scheduled common carrier.
2. No bench or shelter shall be permitted to block existing business signs.
3. No bench or shelter shall be located over storm drain openings or similar
structures.
4. The shelter or bench shall be located no less than 15 feet in front of or 33
feet past any driveway, driveway apron, curb cut or curb return at any street intersection.
5. The minimum sidewalk width ( between curb face and property line/ street
line) at the location of the bench or shelter shall be not less than ten feet.
6. No bench or shelter shall be located so as to interfere with growth of
public trees.
7. The bench or shelter structure including the roof shall be set back a
minimum of 48 inches from the face of the curb.
8. The bench or shelter shall be placed to allow on the sidewalk an
unobstructed pedestrian travelway of 48 inches minimum.
9. Benches or shelters, in relationship to oncoming bus, may be placed
either on the near or far side of the intersection; however, if the curb lane on the near side of the
intersection is a right-turn- only lane, the bench or shelter shall be placed only on the far side of
such intersection. If any bench or shelter is rendered nonconforming by subsequent installation
of a right-turn- only lane, licensee shall move the bench or shelter to conform or remove such
18. 58 (28) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
bench or shelter at expense of licensee. The placement must be approved by the City Engineer
for satisfactory visibility based on design speed of adjacent highway.
10. As each site is different, no set of location placement specifications can
be entirely satisfactory. Consideration shall be given to the unique characteristics of each
location, such as street function or vehicular/pedestrian movements.
G. Advertising. Advertising on any bus bench or bus shelter shall be subject to
requirements of the City' s sign regulations, except as may be modified by the permit, unless the
regulation is pre-empted or prohibited by state law. The permit may reduce the number or size
of allowed signs, but may not increase them.
H. Existing Benches and Shelters. All benches and shelters in existence on the
effective date of this section shall comply with the requirements of this section. The application
process must be submitted within 60 days of the effective date of this section. The owners of all
benches and shelters shall be notified of this requirement within 15 days of the effective date of
this ordinance in writing by sending a copy of this section, with notice to the last known address
of owner, and publication of a summary of the ordinance pursuant to California Governmental
Code Section 6066.
Any bus bench or shelter which does not receive an approved permit within 60
days of the effective date of this section shall be removed by the owner within 30 days from the
end of such 60-day period, unless within the first 60-day period the owner had filed an application
for a permit with the City and a determination on such application has not been given.
At the end of 30-days from the initial 60- day period, any bus bench or shelter for
which a permit has not been approved, shall be subject to abatement and removed by the City
in accordance with the provisions of Section 18. 82.
Prior Code Appendix A 2171; Ord. No. 1993- 15, Amended, 05/ 25/ 93)
Section 18. 58.580 Temporary Uses of Permanent and Modular Buildings, Commercial
Coaches, Semi- Trailers, and Storage Containers ( Maritime Cargo
Containers)
A. Permanent residential buildings may be constructed and used as subdivision
models providing no more than four such dwelling units may be constructed prior to final map
approval for any phase of a conditionally approved tentative subdivision map ( where phasing is
anticipated or proposed). The construction and use of such buildings shall be in conformance
with the conditionally approved map, the City's Development Code, provision of this section,
and conditions that may be a requirement of any use permit where a use permit is required.
1. The grading plan for the subdivision must be approved showing the
location of the models and grading for the model area must be completed prior to the issuance
of any building permit for the proposed models.
2. A landscape plan showing the location, species and variety of all plant
materials to be planted in the model complex must be approved by the City Planner prior to
building permit issuance.
3. Temporary access to models and temporary parking, a minimum of five
parking spaces per model must be constructed concurrent with the models. No occupancy of
the models shall be permitted until adequate provisions are made for public safety, as determined
by the City Engineer, Building Official, and the City Planner.
4. All construction and improvements of any type shall fully conform to
applicable development standards of the City of Vista.
5. Prior to building permit issuance for the models, a waiver of right to final
occupancy shall be executed by the developer, in a form approved by the City Attorney, and no
final occupancy shall be granted for any model, until all temporary improvements are removed
and the unit has ceased to be used as a model.
18. 58 (29) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
6. Prior to building permit issuance for the models, a cash deposit sufficient
for removal of all temporary improvements, and removal of the building(s) if no final map is
approved, or the building( s) are not constructed in conformance with current development
standards, shall be posted with the City.
B. Modular buildings, or commercial coaches may be placed on a building site in any
zoning district within the City as a temporary facility subject to the criteria and regulations set forth
in this section in addition to the applicable zoning district regulations:
1. The placement of modular buildings and/ or commercial coaches as a
temporary facility for a temporary use shall be subject to the granting of a minor use permit
issued in accordance with the provisions of Sections 18. 66.020 and 18. 66.030 of this code.
2. The use of modular buildings and/ or commercial coaches shall be limited
to a period not to exceed 18 months, at the expiration of which they shall be removed from the
site. Except, the Zoning Administrator may grant one extension of an additional 18- month
period after consideration of a request for an extension by the applicant. Any subsequent
request for an extension shall be the same as a new application and shall be treated as such.
3. Modular buildings or commercial coaches shall not be permitted on any
project site unless a building permit for a permanent structure on such site is issued
concurrently with the minor use permit. Should the building permit lapse or be permitted to
expire, the coach shall be removed from the site upon expiration of such permit. Except: such
facilities may be permitted on any legal parcel as an " off-site" sales office for a new residential
or commercial project subject to the granting of a minor use permit.
4. Modular buildings and/ or commercial coaches to be placed on any site
must meet or exceed the requirements of all applicable building and fire codes, or any other
applicable law or regulation.
5. Signs to be erected in conjunction with any onsite facility shall conform
with the sign criteria established by the approved site development plan. If no sign criteria has
been established by the site development plan, signs shall conform with the sign regulations for
the applicable zoning district. Sign criteria for an off-site temporary facility shall be established as
a condition of the required use permit.
6. Parking requirements shall be in conformance with Chapter 18. 54 of the
City' s Development Code for the proposed use. Except: the Zoning Administrator may set such
requirements as deemed necessary as a condition of granting any required use permit and sales
offices for residential projects shall comply with the requirements of Subsection 18. 58. 580.A.2
above.
C. Semi-trailers and storage containers ( maritime cargo containers) may be placed on
a construction site ( residential, commercial, or industrial) during the construction phase(s) of an
approved development project subject to the criteria and standards set forth in this section in
addition to the applicable zoning district regulations:
1. These vehicles and/ or containers shall be restricted to use as a
construction office and/ or the storage of construction equipment and tools only.
2. The placement of these vehicles and/ or containers on a project site for a
temporary use shall be subject to the granting of a minor use permit issued in accordance with
the provisions of Sections 18. 66.020 and 18. 66.030 of this code. Except: where a valid building
permit has been issued for construction of permanent buildings or structures on a project site
these vehicles and/ or containers may be placed and maintained thereon during the period a
grading and/ or building permit is valid. Should the grading or building permit lapse or be
permitted to expire, the facilities shall be removed from the site upon expiration of such permit.
Prior to the granting of final occupancy of the last five percent of the permanent buildings on a
project site, all such vehicles and storage containers shall be removed from the site.
18. 58 (30) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The use of such vehicles and/ or containers on a site shall be limited to a
period not to exceed 18 months, or the expiration of the building permit for construction on the
project site, whichever occurs later, at which time they shall be removed from the site.
4. These vehicles and/ or containers shall not be placed in any public rightof-
way, within any required street setback, or within any fire lane or fire access-way during the
period they are permitted on a project site.
D. One modular building or commercial coach may be placed on private property in
any commercial or office- professional zoning district within the City as a temporary facility for
medical uses only subject to the criteria and regulations set forth in this section in addition to the
applicable zoning district regulations:
1. The placement of a modular building or commercial coach as a temporary
medical facility shall be subject to the granting of a minor use permit issued in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 18.66 of this code, as further limited by the standards below.
2. The use of a modular building or commercial coach shall be limited to a
period not to exceed five years from the date of approval of the minor use permit, at the
expiration of which the facility shall be removed from the site. No extensions to this period shall
be granted unless approved as a new minor use permit.
3. A modular building or commercial coach to be placed on any site must
meet or exceed the requirements of all applicable building and fire codes, or any other
applicable law or regulation. Such facility shall be sited and designed to appear as a permanent
structure to the extent practicable.
4. The modular building or commercial coach shall be adequately screened
from view of the public street through the placement of such facilities, the use of landscaping,
screen walls, or a combination of the above.
5. Parking requirements for the site on which a temporary facility is placed
shall meet the provisions of Chapter 18. 54 of this code, inclusive of the square footage of the
temporary facility permitted herein.
6. Any proposed signs associated with a facility shall comply with the sign
criteria established for the site and the design guidelines in Chapter 18. 52 of this code, and shall
be submitted for review as part of the minor use permit applications.
7. Landscaping shall be placed around the temporary facility to the
satisfaction of the City Planner. Landscape areas may be used for the placement of the facility
only in the event that a minimum of 15 percent of the site remains landscaped in accordance
with Section 18. 56.050.
Ord. No. 1991- 14, Enacted, 06/ 25/ 91; Ord. No. 2009- 11, Amended, 4/ 14/ 09)
Section 18. 58.590 Refuse Collection and Storage Areas
A. Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to the language contained in this
section:
1. Accessible. This shall mean that the collection area shall be easily
accessed by waste and recyclable collection vehicles as described in Subsection 18. 58. 590.0
hereof.
2. Adequate. This shall mean an enclosure of sufficient size to
accommodate the containers necessary to collect the proposed land use activity' s solid waste
and recyclable materials as described in Subsection 18. 58. 590.0 hereof.
3. Convenient. As used herein, shall mean that:
a. For multi- family developments common collection area(s) shall be
located no more than 150 feet walking distance, from any dwelling unit served by the collection
area.
18. 58 (31) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
b. For commercial and industrial activities the collection area( s)
should be located adjacent to their service entrance( s). And, in the case of restaurants or other
land use activities, where employees may be depositing waste materials in the collection area
during the hours of darkness, within 50 feet of a building entrance and provided with security
lighting. Land use activities using mechanical means to deposit waste in the collection area(s)
are exempt from this distance requirement.
4. Development project means any of the following:
a. A project for which a building permit is required for a commercial,
industrial, or institutional building, or residential building having five or more living units, where
solid waste is collected and loaded and any residential project where solid waste is collected
and loaded in a location serving five or more living units.
b. Any new public facility where solid waste is collected and loaded
and any improvements for areas of a public facility used for collecting and loading solid waste.
5. Recycling Area (Areas for Recycling). Space allocated for collecting and
loading of recyclable materials.
6. Project for which a building permit is required. A project for which a
building permit is required, at a minimum:
a. All new projects.
b. Any single alteration of an existing project requiring a building
permit.
C. Any sum total of alterations requiring a building permit to an
existing project conducted within a 12 month period.
B. General requirements.
1. Any new development project for which an application for a building
permit is submitted on or after September 1, 1994, shall include adequate, accessible, and
convenient areas for collecting and loading solid waste and recyclable materials.
2. Any improvements for areas of a public facility used for collecting and
loading solid waste shall include adequate, accessible, and convenient areas for collecting and
loading solid waste and recyclable materials.
3. Any project for which an application for a building permit is submitted on
or after September 1, 1994, for modifications that meet one or both of the conditions below shall
include adequate, accessible and convenient areas for collecting and loading solid waste and
recyclable materials:
a. Any modification to the project adds 30 percent or more to the
existing floor area; or
b. The cost of a modification exceeds ten percent of the then current
assessed value of the subject parcel.
C. Design standards.
1. Collection Areas. Areas for the collection of solid waste and recyclable
materials shall be adequate in capacity, number and distribution to serve the development or the
project. In any case the design and construction shall be compatible with the development and
surrounding land uses.
a. Multi- Family Residential. In multi- family residential developments,
the collection area(s) must be within 150 feet (walking distance) of any dwelling unit served by the
area(s).
b. Commercial or Industrial. In commercial or industrial
developments, the collection area(s) must be within close proximity of the service entrance/ exit
of the facility served, and be located on the sides or rear of the building( s) served.
2. Dimensions. The dimensions of the solid waste and recycling collection
area( s) shall be of sufficient size to accommodate containers consistent with current methods of
18. 58 (32) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
collection in the area in which the development or project is located and all standards
established by the franchise refuse contractor.
3. Outdoor Collection Areas.
a. These areas shall be screened from view on all sides by a solid
decorative masonry wall, not less than six feet in height, with an access opening closed with a
decorative metal gate. The enclosure shall be covered to prohibit storm water intrusion; the
cover shall be architecturally compatible with the building( s) on the lot or building site.
b. The collection area shall be level ( sloped sufficiently to provide
surface drainage away from the collection area), and paved with a concrete ( PCC) floor and
apron of sufficient size to accommodate a collection vehicle not less than eight feet in width and
30 feet in length with a turning radius of 36 feet. The additional weight of a bin on the front of a
truck when the bin is picked- up can damage pavement in front of the enclosure. The best
protection is a concrete ( PCC) slab able to accommodate 20,000 pounds on two-wheels in front of
the enclosure.
C. The paving of the collection area ( enclosure) floor and approach
apron shall be a minimum of four inches of PCC concrete over a suitable base.
d. Driveways or vehicle travel lanes shall provide unobstructed
access for collection vehicles and personnel. Access to the collection area(s) shall consist of a
minimum of:
1) Overhead clearance of the approach to the collection
enclosure ( bins) must be 16-feet. This clearance is also required at roof lines or building
projections over carports.
2) Driveway width for straight through drive and pickup must
be 14 feet, or 18 feet if truck is required to back-out.
3) Driveways should be of sufficient strength to accommodate
54, 000 pounds distributed on ten wheels.
4) Where a turn- around is required to exit, a minimum radius
of 36 feet must be provided for the service trucks.
5) These standards are considered minimum and greater
standards may be required for certain commercial and industrial land use activities.
4. An adequate number of bins or containers to allow for the collection and
loading of solid waste and recyclable materials generated by the development should be located
within the collection areas for the activities accommodated by the development (See Subsection
18. 58.590.C.2 above). The City, or its authorized agent, will provide for the collection system of
recyclable materials in accordance with Chapter 15. 08 of the City Code.
5. Recycling areas shall be secured to prevent the theft of recyclable
materials by unauthorized persons, while allowing authorized persons access for collection of
such materials.
6. Recycling areas, or the containers placed therein, must provide protection
against adverse environmental elements that may render the collected materials unmarketable.
7. A sign or signs clearly identifying all solid waste and recycling collection
and loading areas and the materials accepted therein shall be posted adjacent to all points of
access to the waste and recycling areas.
8. Residential developers and property owners are encouraged to include
recycling areas or systems with individual living units. These may include roll- out drawers
below the sink(s) for recycling receptacles; fire- proof, cleanable, secure chutes from the living
space to the collection area(s); etc. Recommended internal storage space for individual living
units in a project is three cubic feet.
9. In addition to the standards set forth herein, the collection, storage and
transporting of solid waste and recycling materials shall be subject to the regulations and
standards set forth in Chapters 13. 16 and 15. 08 of the City Code.
18. 58 (33) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
D. Location. Solid waste and recyclable collection and loading areas shall not be
located in any space required by the City Code to be constructed and maintained as
unencumbered, in conformance with fire and other applicable building or public safety
regulations or standards.
1. Solid waste and recycling collection points shall be located in the same
area or immediately adjacent to each other where feasible. However, in no case will recycling
area( s) be any less convenient than solid waste collection areas.
2. Each solid waste and/ or recycling collection area( s) within a multi- family
residential development shall be no more than 150 feet from any living unit within the
development.
Ord. No. 1994- 25, Enacted, 10/ 25/ 94; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended, 10/ 9/ 12; Ord. No. 2020- 1,
Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 58.600 Crematoriums Prohibited
Notwithstanding other provisions of the Development or Municipal Code of the City of
Vista or any provision of any specific plan, crematoriums are prohibited in the City of Vista. Any
crematoriums legally permitted and existing as of the effective date of this section shall be
considered a legal non- conforming use subject to Chapter 18.72 of the Development Code.
Ord. No. 1997- 5, Enacted, 03/ 25/ 97)
18. 58.610 Hookah Lounges; Prohibition
A. Hookah lounges shall be prohibited in all zones whether operating as a primary
or an accessory use.
B. For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the meaning set
forth below:
1. Hookah lounge" means a business, establishment or other
organization which: (a) provides a hookah pipe which may be used at the premises by its
customers, patrons, or others; or ( b) allows any person to locate a hookah pipe on the
premises so it may be used by that person, customers, patrons or others.
2. Hookah pipe" means a water pipe, bong, hookah, or similar device
through which a person can cause tobacco or another lawful substance to combust and then
pass through the air, gas or a liquid before it is inhaled by a person using the device. A
hookah pipe does not include cigarettes, cigars, or a device where: ( a) the smoke is inhaled
without passing through a liquid; and ( b) the length of any pipe or tube used for inhaling the
smoke is not more than ten inches.
Ord. No. 2012- 8, Enacted, 05/ 22/ 12)
18. 58. 620 Parcels or Lots Under Common Control
Adjacent parcels of lots, under common control of one property owner through fee
ownership, lease, or rental agreement, may be used to support land uses that are accessory
or secondary to a primary use that is established on one of the parcels or lots under the
following circumstances:
A. All of the parcels or lots are zoned A- 1, E- 1, or R- 1
B. The parcels or lots are contiguous to one another, share a common boundary
of at least fifty linear feet, and have sufficient internal access between the parcels for the
accessory or secondary use to serve the primary use without reliance on a public right of way
to connect the two parcels.
18. 58 (34) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The accessory or secondary use qualifies as a lawful accessory or secondary
use under the zoning classification which governs both the lot on which the primary use is
established and the lot on which the accessory or secondary use is established.
D. No accessory buildings are permitted on any parcel or lot without a legally
established primary use. This shall not apply to any buildings existing on the parcel or lot
prior to the City' s incorporation, January 28, 1963.
Ord. No. 2012- 12, Enacted, 10/ 09/ 12)
18. 58 (35) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.60
Condominium Housing
Sections:
18. 60.010 Establishment Procedure
18. 60.020 Permit Application Procedure
18. 60.040 Condominium Conversion - Apartment Project Requirements
18. 60.030 Subdivision Map Requirement Waived When
18. 60.050 Condominium Conversion - Requirements Generally
18. 60.060 Approval or Denial Conditions - Hearing Procedure
18. 60.070 Permit Nullified When
18. 60.080 Modifications to Standards
18. 60.090 Mobile Home Subdivisions
Section 18. 60.010 Establishment Procedure
In the city, condominium housing may be established through one of the following
methods in addition to filing a subdivision map:
A. In accordance with Chapter 18.24, through a planned residential development
overlay zone, PRD permit and subdivision.
B. Through a specific plan under Section 65450 of the State of California
Government Code and Chapter 18.50 of this code.
C. Through a specific plan of design translating potential zoning into effective zoning
in accordance with Section 18. 58. 050.
D. By obtaining a condominium housing permit by the procedure contained in this
chapter, if the property is zoned R- M, M- U, or located within a specific plan that permits multifamily
dwellings.
Prior Code Appendix A 2181; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18. 60.020 Permit Application Procedure
A. A subdivision of property into ownership parcels or divisions in accordance with
Section 66426 of the Government Code, shall, in addition to the recordation of a final subdivision
map, require a condominium housing permit. The condominium housing permit will be processed
in the same manner and concurrent with a tentative subdivision map application and
accompanied by a site development plan application. This section shall also apply to stock
cooperative housing.
B. Application for a condominium housing permit shall be made on forms provided by
the Director of Planning. This application shall be accompanied by a fee established by
resolution of the City Council. The application shall he submitted concurrently with the
appropriate submission of a tentative subdivision map and a site development plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2182)
Section 18. 60.030 Subdivision Map Requirement Waived When
Prior Code Appendix A 2182. 3; Ord. 2012- 12 Repealed 10/ 09/ 12)
Section 18. 60.040 Condominium Conversion - Apartment Project Requirements
Apartment projects may apply for conversion to condominiums; provided, that:
A. The project will be constructed under the provision of the current version of the
18. 60 ( l) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Uniform Building Code.
B. The project meets or will be upgraded to meet the requirements of Section
18. 60.050.
C. The project was constructed under the provisions of the Uniform Building Code
prior to the adoption of the original condominium housing ordinance, November 26, 1979.
D. The apartment project was approved with a site development plan prior to
January 1, 1985.
E. No project constructed as an apartment may convert to a condominium after
January 1, 1988.
F. The City Council may, however, waive the requirement for a tentative and final
subdivision map, and exempt a one- lot stock cooperative or a one- lot air-space condominium
from Condition E of this section under the following circumstances:
1. A written request is made to the City Council through the Director of
Planning for such a waiver.
2. The purchase is ( a) a resident- initiated action of an apartment building or
group of buildings, or (b) of a mobile home park by a corporation comprised of over 50 percent of
the existing residents prior to the purchase for the purpose of creating a one-lot stock
cooperative or a one- lot air-space condominium; provided, that a majority of the remaining
residents either purchasing or not purchasing the park consent to such purchase and that such
corporate purchase does not result in displacement of either any lower income household unit or
any existing mobile home coach. In applying this section, the City Council may, by majority vote,
approve this waiver upon receipt of a request on behalf of at least 66 and 2/ 3 percent of the
residents intending to purchase the property or upon request of over 50 percent of the residents
intending to purchase and a petition consenting to the purchase signed by a majority of the
remaining residents not purchasing interest in the project. The application shall also include a
certification that no existing resident will be economically evicted or evicted because of
nonparticipation in the purchase.
3. The City Council finds that the project meets all requirements that may
have been established as a condition of subdivision, were it applicable, including displacement of
residents.
4. No more than 25 percent of the shares of the cooperative were owned by
any one person, as defined in Section 18. 02.525, including an incorporator or director of the
cooperative, on January 1, 1980.
5. A person renting a unit in a cooperative shall be entitled, at the time of
conversion, to all tenant rights in state or local law, including, but not limited to, rights respecting
first refusal, notice and displacement and relocation benefits.
6. The City may establish a fee to recover cost of processing such a request. This fee
shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2182. 5)
Section 18. 60.050 Condominium Conversion - Requirements Generally
The applicant, upon submittal of an application for a condominium housing permit, in
addition to the requirements of Section 18. 60.020, shall submit evidence that:
A. The standards of the development meet the conditions of the underlying zone and
that applicable building codes are met, the units are individually metered, and adequately served
by public facilities, or on a single meter billed to the homeowners' association if so incorporated
in the CC& Rs.
B. All applicable City development fees and development conditions are paid for or
guaranteed, or developed, with each unit calculated as a single-family unit.
C. A list of the CC& Rs of the project is provided and approved as part of the
18. 60 ( 2) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
condominium housing permit.
D. All private streets, driveways, walkways, parking areas, landscaped areas,
storage areas, screening, sewers, drainage facilities, utilities, open space, recreation facilities
and other improvements not dedicated to public use shall be maintained by the property owners.
Any failure to maintain is unlawful and is declared to be a public nuisance endangering the
health, safety and general welfare of the public and a detriment to the surrounding community.
Where such failure to maintain is noted by the City, the City shall institute compliance as
provided in the CC& Rs and have the authority to place lien on the property for its maintenance if
the homeowners' association is derelict in enforcing this requirement.
E. 1. At least 40 percent of the gross land area of the project site shall be
maintained as open space. Land occupied by buildings, streets, driveways or parking areas may
not be included in satisfying this requirement.
2. Not less than 50 percent of the qualified open space shall be on land with
a slope of less than ten percent unless specifically modified by the Planning Commission or the
City Council.
3. At least 50 square feet of common open space per unit shall be provided
in a single area reasonably accessible and available to all of the residential units.
F. The applicant shall also submit evidence for granting the condominium housing
permit to the Planning Commission and/ or the City Council; for existing units that have been
either certified for occupancy over six months or is occupied at the time of application, to enable
the Planning Commission and/ or City Council to make the following findings:
1. That the project is in compliance with the Housing Element of the General
Plan, in that it does not reduce the availability of lower income housing in the community.
2. That the project is, at time of application, in legal compliance with the
codes and ordinances of the City under which its present use falls, and there are no outstanding
violations of these codes or ordinances.
3. That all nonconforming features of the project, where reasonably possible,
are to be brought into compliance.
4. That the resultant unit density and the proposed use is in compliance with
the land use element of the general plan.
G. If the project is occupied, the applicant shall submit a current list of the tenants'
names who shall be notified by the City, of the meeting time and place where the matter will be
considered.
H. 1. The Planning Commission and/ or City Council may impose any other
reasonable condition as a condition of conversion approval, to bring a condominium housing
conversion) permit into compliance with the above findings of this section, including
requirements regarding mitigating impacts as set forth in the housing element and protections of
housing for lower income families. Such a condition may include a provision to reserve or sell up
to six percent of the units to be made eligible for and available to the City or its housing agency
for lower income households qualified for assistance. The City or the housing agency shall have
the authority to accept or refuse the reservation within 30 days of the adoption of the
requirement. A condition for payment of relocation expense for certified lower income families
shall be applied to all condominium conversion policies, the amount to provide for moving
expenses, cleaning deposit and two month' s rent in a comparable or better relocation rental unit.
Applicants may provide a " tenant benefit package," which provides preferable terms of purchase
to residents of the project, compared to the open market.
2. The City may accept land dedication and/ or assess a fee in lieu of this
lower income housing provision, such fee to be placed in a special account and utilized
exclusively for programs providing lower income housing opportunity in the City. This dedication
and/ or fee shall be based on a fair share contribution to the City's housing assistance program,
applied to the project in question.
18. 60 ( 3) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
I. The Planning Commission and/or City Council may require other reasonable
requirements including, but not limited to:
1. Off-street parking and enforcement agreements.
2. The installation of smoke alarms or other safety features deemed
appropriate by the Fire Chief or the Building Official.
Prior Code Appendix A 2183)
Section 18. 60.060 Approval or Denial Conditions - Hearing Procedure
The Planning Commission and City Council shall include the findings for the condominium
housing in its resolution of approval or denial of the tentative subdivision map, and any hearing of
appeal or approval by the City Council shall be in accordance with the appropriate subdivision
and site plan review procedure.
Prior Code Appendix A 2184)
Section 18. 60.070 Permit Nullified When
Expiration or disapproval of a tentative subdivision map or site development plan shall
automatically nullify the companion condominium housing permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2185)
Section 18. 60.080 Modifications to Standards
The Planning Commission may grant modifications to the standards contained in this
chapter; provided, that the findings for a variance are met in accordance with Section 18. 74. 030.
Prior Code Appendix A 2186)
Section 18.60.090 Mobile Home Subdivisions
The following additional requirements shall apply to condominium housing projects
proposing structures certified under the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974:
A. Non- condominium Subdivisions. Subdivisions on fee-simple lots containing lot sizes
conforming to the minimum lot size of the zone in which the subdivision is located and not
proposing a condominium or stock cooperative shall not be regulated by the provisions of this
section.
B. Condominium Subdivisions. The application for a tentative subdivision map for a
subdivision for a condominium or stock cooperative shall be filed pursuant to this chapter and
shall include a site development plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2188)
18. 60 ( 4) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 62
Automobile Service Station Development Regulations
Sections:
18. 62.010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 62.020 Special Use Permit Required When - Conformance with Provisions
18. 62.030 Permit Application Procedure
18. 62.040 Permitted Activities and Services
18. 62.050 Combined Uses
18. 62.060 Site Location
18. 62.070 Development Standards
18. 62.080 Signs
18. 62.090 Conflict of Provisions
18. 62. 100 Issuance and Posting of Permit
18. 62. 110 Nonconforming Uses Lawful When
Section 18. 62.010 Purpose of Provisions
In order to promote and preserve the public health, safety, convenience and general
welfare, it is the intent of this chapter that automobile service stations shall be located and
operated so as not to create increased pedestrian and vehicular traffic hazards and shall not be
detrimental to the ordinary maintenance, development and redevelopment of the surrounding
area as reflected by the general plan, specific plan or zoning regulations approved by the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 2700)
Section 18.62.020 Special Use Permit Required When - Conformance with Provisions
A. A special use permit shall be required for automobile service stations under the
following conditions:
1. Construction of new service stations
2. Reopening of a service station that has been vacant for a period of at
least six months.
3. Renovation, alteration or additions to existing service stations when such
change exceeds 50 percent of the value of the existing building or structure as officially
established by the latest records of the county assessor.
4. Service stations annexed to the City which do not comply with permitted
activity and services, or the requirement regarding trash enclosure, storage space and
landscaping, shall be considered nonconforming and subject to nonconforming provisions as set
forth in Section 18. 62. 110.
B. The Planning Commission, or City Council on appeal, shall have the right to deny
or modify any application for a special use permit upon the finding that such request would be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare as set forth in Chapter 18. 74.
C. All new, reopened, renovated or annexed service stations, or those requesting
any substantial change in services rendered, shall be required to meet all of the requirements of
this chapter unless this chapter specifically states that the Planning Commission may modify
that particular requirement; or the Planning Commission determines that an extreme hardship
would result from strict enforcement of provisions on reopened, renovated or annexed stations,
or those requesting any substantial change in services rendered, only; or unless a variance is
approved as set forth in Chapter 18. 74.
Prior Code Appendix A 2701)
18. 62 ( l) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 62.030 Permit Application Procedure
When applying for a special use permit under the provisions of this section, the applicant
shall submit the following information, maps and plans:
A. A full- dimensioned plot plan of the property, drawn to scale, showing location of
all buildings, canopies, points of vehicular access, pump islands, storage facilities, landscape
planters, exterior lighting standards, signs, walls, parking spaces, trash enclosures, curbcuts
and driveway approaches.
B. An engineered on- site grading plan, which shows compliance with all provisions
of the ordinance of the City governing grading and drainage.
C. A landscape and irrigation plan showing the size, location, number and variety of
plant materials to be used, including the botanical or common plant names and the location,
type and design of all irrigation facilities.
D. Architectural elevations of all buildings, walls, signs and trash enclosures,
including a description of the materials, textures and colors to be used.
E. A list of services and operations intended to be provided.
Prior Code Appendix A 2702)
Section 18. 62.040 Permitted Activities and Services
In addition to the sale of motor fuels, activities and services shall be permitted, limited or
precluded as follows:
A. Rental of automobiles, trucks, trailers and similar vehicles may be permitted;
provided, that the site contains adequate space for display and/ or parking and that such rentals
be displayed and/ or parked in only an area so designated as part of the special use permit.
Unless expressly stated otherwise as part of the special use permit or specific plan, displaying
and/ or parking of rentals shall not be within 20 feet of any street frontage property line.
B. All new and used merchandise shall be stored and displayed within the service
station building, except new and reconditioned tires, batteries, accessories and lubrication items
which are maintained in movable or enclosable cabinets or racks designed for the display and
sale of such merchandise. The location of enclosable cabinets and racks shall be designated on
the special use permit.
C. No used or discarded automotive parts or equipment or permanently disabled,
junk or wrecked vehicles shall be located outside the service station building except within an
enclosed trash storage area screened from public view.
D. All painting, welding, body and fender repair, tire recapping and the rental of
other heavy equipment and the sale and rental of other merchandise, other than that specified
in this section and in Section 18. 02. 110, is expressly prohibited.
E. Vending machines shall be permitted only within an area which will not interfere
with safe traffic movements and approved as part of the special use permit.
F. Temporary promotions:
1. The sale and storage of merchandise not customarily related to the
operation and maintenance of motor vehicles and as part of a region- wide promotion shall be
allowed for a period not to exceed 90 days for any one promotion with a maximum of 120 days
in any calendar year permitted for such promotions.
2. The sale and storage of merchandise as a part of a temporary promotion
conducted by the local dealer or operator shall be permitted for a period not to exceed 30 days,
and not more than two such periods in any calendar year may be permitted and shall be
separated by a period of not less than 30 days.
3. Neither subdivision 1 or 2 of this subsection is meant to apply to items
which are provided free or at a reduced price to the customers with purchase of products from
18. 62 ( 2) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
the service station.
4. A " no fee" permit must be issued for each promotion by the Director of
Planning before such promotion may take place.
G. Public telephones are permitted, provided they shall not be within 20 feet of any
street frontage property line and are located so as to be visible from the public right- of-way and
accessible on a 24- hour basis.
H. Products which render an express convenience of service to the customer such
as pump island racks, containing oil cans and additives, may be displayed under the pump
island canopy when maintained in a cabinet or display rack. Such cabinets or racks shall not
obstruct vehicular access to pump island.
I. The sales and rental of any type of merchandise not related to the motoring
public is prohibited.
J. Tow trucks and similar service vehicles may be allowed if approved as part of the
special use permit and shall be parked only in an area expressly provided and approved as part
of the special use permit.
K. It is not the intent of this section to prohibit such proprietary items as road maps,
highway flares, insecticides or other small items incidental and related to the convenience of the
motoring public.
L. The use of a service station as a commercial parking lot is prohibited unless
expressly approved as part of the special use permit.
M. Storage and trash shall be kept only in areas approved as part of the special use
permit and shall not be placed higher than the walls enclosing such areas. Trash may be
collected in containers at the pump islands or inside buildings and service bays.
N. Hours of operation may be designated as part of the special use permit if
exceptional circumstances exist such as close proximity to residential zones.
O. The removal, overhaul and replacement of motors, differentials and
transmissions is permitted, provided these activities occur within a completely enclosed building
and on vehicles with a rated capacity not to exceed one and one- half tons. These activities shall
constitute only an accessory and incidental use of the service station operation and shall not
create obnoxious odors, smoke, noise, vibration or otherwise create a nuisance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2703)
Section 18. 62.050 Combined Uses
Service stations combined with another use may be approved as part of the special use
permit, provided the other use is permitted within the zone district, parking and access is
provided for the customers in an area additional to the area required for the service station and
access to the other use is safe and not in conflict with the service station.
Prior Code Appendix A 2704)
Section 18. 62.060 Site Location
Automobile service stations shall be located only at intersections of streets and
highways designated on the City' s adopted Circulation Element of the General Plan or in
commercial centers, as follows:
A. Prime arterials and/ or major streets having a right- of-way width of 100 feet.
B. Collector streets having a right- of-way width of 84 feet.
C. Within the C- 1 zone, a service station may be situated fronting on a primary
thoroughfare and siding on a freeway right- of-way.
D. Within commercial developments with a land area of two acres or more under
one ownership.
Prior Code Appendix A 2705)
18. 62 ( 3) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 62.070 Development Standards
The architectural design of service station developments shall be compatible with the
character of development of the area in which it is to be located; however, innovative
architectural design and site layout which would contribute to the efficiency and appearance of
the station and minimize adverse effects on adjacent property is encouraged.
A. Site Size.
1. Corner Site. The minimum area of a corner site shall be 22, 500 square
feet, with a minimum frontage of 150 feet on one street unless located within a commercial
development of two acres or more.
2. Shopping Center Site. When service stations are developed as a part of a
commercial development with an area greater than two acres, the service station site may be
reduced to 15, 000 square feet, provided the additional required area is provided within the
mutual parking and areas.
B. Access.
1. Two driveways on each street frontage may be permitted with the
approval of the City Engineer. Access driveways shall be no closer than 35 feet from the point
of intersection of the ultimate right- of-way lines of the adjoining street, but in no case closer than
five feet to the point of curb return. Such driveways shall be at least 25 feet apart and they may
be no closer than five feet to the side property line.
2. Whenever possible, a combined driveway for both the service station and
adjacent shopping center or commercial property shall be designated and provided.
C. Lot Grading and Drainage. Grading of service station sites shall provide a
minimum rise, in order to ensure required fall for drainage, and shall be engineered in a
compatible manner with the surrounding properties. All drainage to the street shall be by
underground structures to avoid drainage across City sidewalks or drive aprons, and shall be
subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works.
D. Utilities. All on- site utilities ( electrical and communication) shall be installed
underground. Existing off-site abutting utility lines shall be converted to underground if street
widening necessitates relocation of such utility facilities.
E. Setbacks. All buildings shall be set back from interior and street frontage property
lines a minimum of 30 feet; pump islands parallel to the adjacent street shall be situated a
minimum of 20 feet from all property lines; pump islands perpendicular to the adjacent street
shall be a minimum of 24 feet from all property lines; and canopies shall be a minimum of ten
feet from any street frontage property line.
F. Canopy Structure. Every pump island shall be covered by a canopy structure
designed and constructed of material to blend with the main building. Where design permits, the
pump island canopy structure shall be attached to and made an integral part of the main
building structure.
G. Storage Area. Each service station shall have a storage area. The required
storage area may be constructed outside of the main building; provided, that it be enclosed by a
six-foot- high solid masonry wall, containing an opening enclosed with a view-obscuring gate
made of a durable metal material, and be roofed and contiguous to the main building unless
approved otherwise as part of the special use permit.
H. Trash Enclosures.
1. Each service station shall have at least one trash enclosure. All outside
trash areas shall have a minimum area of 100 square feet with a minimum dimension of five feet
by eight feet, have a concrete floor, be constructed to accommodate a refuse container, and
18. 62 ( 4) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
except for one entrance, are to be surrounded by a six-foot- high solid wall constructed in a
manner so that the materials used will blend architecturally with the design of the main
structure. The entrance shall be enclosed with a view-obscuring gate made of a durable metal
material.
2. No trash, including discarded oil cans, batteries, signs, tires, etc., shall be
stored or deposited on any section of the site, except in the trash area. Solid doors leading into
the trash area shall be maintained in working condition.
I. Restrooms. All restroom entrances shall be situated either to the side, to the rear
or within the main building. The restroom area may be situated in a location other than above if
approved by the Planning Commission as part of the special use permit.
J. Parking. There shall be a minimum of five parking spaces or one parking space
for each pump island and two parking spaces for each service bay, whichever is the greater.
The parking area shall conform to the standards set forth in Sections 18. 02. 515 and 18. 54. 040.
All parking spaces shall be clearly marked and no parking may be allowed on sidewalks,
parkways, driveways, alleys or planted areas.
K. Lighting. All exterior lighting, including canopy lighting and perimeter lighting,
shall be located, arranged and shielded so as to prevent substantial glare or reflection onto
adjacent properties or public rights- of-way.
L. Perimeter Walls and Landscape Separation.
1. Perimeter Walls. Whenever a service station abuts property in a
residential zone, there shall be constructed along the property line abutting the residential zone
a solid decorative masonry wall not less than six feet high measured from finish grade elevation
of abutting residential property; however, the wall shall not exceed two and one- half feet high at
a common right- of-way and property line intersection and shall extend at such height to the
setback line of the adjacent property. Walls need not be installed when building walls or other
acceptable walls already exist on such property lines, or the service station is part of a shopping
center development. The wall requirements may be modified as part of the special use permit.
2. Walls as Landscaped Separation. A wall constructed on the interior
property lines shall make provisions for tree wells or landscaped planting areas not less than 16
square feet in area. When included as part of the wall design, the wells or planting shall be
spaced not less than eight feet nor more than 16 feet apart. Contiguous planters or planters of
uneven length may satisfy this requirement if they are at least one-third of the length of the wall
and include trees planted not more than 16 feet apart.
M. Landscaping. At least ten percent of the site shall be landscaped with plant
materials designed to provide beautification and screening. Planting areas shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
1. All landscaped planters shall be enclosed with a brick or concrete curb
not less than six inches high above the finished grade of the site.
2. A minimum five- foot- wide ( inside dimension) raised planter, with six- inch
curb face made of concrete or brick, shall be provided along all street property lines between
street access points for purposes of separating pump islands from the sidewalk. Landscaped
planters may be rounded at driveway entrances utilizing a minimum ten- foot radius.
3. A minimum of 150 square feet of raised planter with curb, minimum six
inches in height, shall be provided at the street frontage of the intersecting corner of the site,
from curbcut to curbcut.
4. All planting other than trees shall be so maintained so as not to exceed a
height greater than 30 inches, shall not be thorny or spiked, and shall not extend over the
sidewalk or public right- of-way.
5. Fifteen- gallon trees shall be placed in the parkway area ( between curb
face and back of sidewalk) with spacing and variety of trees to be determined by the director of
building and planning.
18. 62 ( 5) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
6. The main structure of each service station shall be provided with masonry
enclosed planters adjacent to all buildings areas not occupied by doorways, trash areas, bay
openings or other such reasonable areas of deletion, or possess a 42- inch- high masonry veneer
wall. This provision shall apply in such cases where metal buildings are constructed.
7. Except for common traffic movement drives, service stations within
shopping centers or tourist centers shall be delineated from the remainder of the property by a
landscaped buffer with minimum inside dimensions of four feet and enclosed by a six- inch
concrete or brick curb. Common and integrated traffic movement drives between the service
station and the remainder of the property shall be encouraged.
8. All planting areas shall be provided with a permanent irrigation system of
a design suitable for the type and arrangement of the plant material selected.
9. All planted areas shall be maintained so as not to constitute a health or
fire hazard.
N. Restroom Facilities. All service stations shall provide restroom facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 2706)
Section 18. 62.080 Signs
Prior Code Appendix A 2707; Ord. No. 92- 25, Repealed, 11/ 17/ 92)
Section 18. 62.090 Conflict of Provisions
In the event of conflicting provisions between these development standards and any
development standards required by the zone district where development will occur, the
development standards required by this chapter shall take precedence.
Prior Code Appendix A 2709)
Section 18. 62. 100 Issuance and Posting of Permit
A. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, or other licensing officer designated to issue
business licenses, to furnish the applicant for a license to operate an automobile service station
a copy of the approved special use permit.
B. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to post in a location visible to all
employees a list of all conditions of the approved special use permit resolution.
Prior Code Appendix A 2708)
Section 18. 62. 110 Nonconforming Uses Lawful When
Service stations existing prior to the adoption of the regulations codified in this chapter
that do not comply with the permitted activities and services, or the requirements regarding
trash enclosures and landscaping, shall be considered a lawful, nonconforming use.
Prior Code Appendix A 2710)
18. 62 ( 6) Vista 7/ 14/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 64
Site Development Plans and Plot Plans
Sections:
18. 64.010 Purpose and Intent
18. 64.020 Site Development Plan Required
18. 64.030 Exemptions from the Site development Plan Process
18. 64.035 Plot Plan Required
18. 64.040 Pre-Application Conference Procedure for Site Development Plans
18. 64.050 Site Development Plan Application Procedure
18. 64.060 Review and Evaluation Procedure
18. 64.070 Actions on Applications
18. 64.080 Appeal of Zoning Administrator and/ or Planning Commission Action
18. 64.090 Conformance of Subsequent Development Permits with the Approved Site
Development and Plot Plan
18. 64. 100 Expiration and Extension
18. 64. 110 Fees
18. 64. 120 Variance from Provisions, Repealed
18. 64. 130 Special Use and Other Permits, Repealed
18. 64.140 Conformance, Repealed
18. 64. 150 Expiration, Repealed
18. 64. 160 Fees, Repealed
Section 18. 64.010 Purpose and Intent
A. The purpose of a site development and plot plans is to provide a means for
review of proposed developments to:
1. Ensure that the provisions of the City of Vista General Plan, City code
including fire code and building code), state laws, Design Review Manual and policy
requirements are recognized and complied with.
2. Ensure that sound design practices are followed, and proper public
facilities and rights- of-way are recognized and provided.
3. Determine that a lot or parcel and the buildings, structures or
improvements proposed are suitable for the use requested.
4. Maintain and encourage high standards of development.
B. The intent of the site development and plot plans is to:
1. Promote the orderly and harmonious appearance of buildings, structures
and property within the City along with associated facilities, such as, but not limited to, streets,
parking areas, landscaping and signs.
2. Ensure that new developments and/ or additions, including residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional, and public/quasi- public projects do not have an adverse
health, safety, aesthetical, or architecturally related impact on existing adjoining properties, or
the City in general.
3. Provide to the applicant an informative review to assist in the efficient and
coordinated processing of projects consistent with City standards and requirements.
C. It is not the intent of this chapter to restrict imagination, innovation or variety, but
rather to focus on design principles which will result in creative solutions for the project and
quality development for the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 2800; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended,
10/ 9/ 12)
18. 64 (l) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.64.020 Site Development Plan Required
Site development plans shall be required and shall be subject to all requirements of the
Site development plan procedures for the following projects:
A. Residential projects containing five or more dwelling units on a single parcel or
lot. This requirement includes those existing projects where one or more additional dwelling
unit(s) is proposed on a building site containing four or more such units.
B. New commercial ( including offices), industrial, institutional, government, and
quasi- public projects.
C. Any project proposed in a zoning district subject to Specific Overlay Zoning
Standards including, but not limited to, Scenic Preservation District ( SP) or Open Space ( OS)
districts.
D. Unless otherwise exempted by Section 18. 64.030, a previously approved site
development plan which is amended to:
1. Increase land use or building occupancy intensity
2. Increase the gross floor area
3. Change the grading or degree of slope
4. Alter the drainage flow or system
5. Require any modification of previous requirements
E. Projects which require a separate development permit such as a Special Use
Permit, Planned Residential Development Permit, Condominium Housing Permit, or similar
development permit. The approval process for the site development plan shall be combined with
the hearing process for the other development permit. Approval or denial of the other
development permit shall include approval or denial of the site development plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18.64.030 Exemptions from the Site Development Plan Process
The following projects may be issued building permits without the requirement for a site
development plan. However, they shall be subject to conformance with all development
standards specified in the General Plan, applicable specific plan, zoning ordinance, fire code,
building code, and Design Review Manual. The Zoning Administrator shall certify conformance
prior to building permit issuance. The following projects are exempt:
A. Additions or alterations to existing structures provided that the addition or
alteration will not result in an increase of more than the following:
1. Residential: 50 percent of the floor area of the structure before the
addition or alteration.
2. Commercial ( including offices), institution, or quasi- public: 25 percent of
the floor area of the structure before the addition alteration, or 2, 500 square feet, whichever is
less.
3. Industrial: 25 percent of the floor area of the structure before the addition
or alteration, or 5, 000 square feet, whichever is less.
B. Reserved
C. Reserved
D. New structures on legal lots within an approved specific plan area where such
lots have been graded and improved in accordance with approved plans, and where the use of
such structure is consistent with the conditions of the specific plan. This exemption is provided
only under the following circumstances:
1. The applicant provides, with his application, evidence of the project's
conformance with all conditions of the specific plan.
18. 64 (2) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. The project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act
CEQA).
E. Any project below the threshold specified in Section 18. 64. 020.
F. Facade modifications to existing multi- tenant commercial/ industrial development.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18.64.035 Plot Plan Required
Except as provided below, plot plans shall be required in all instances where a project
requires the submission of a plot plan as provided in this Code and for all projects exempted by
section 18.64.030 from the requirement for a site development plan. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Zoning Administrator can determine to exempt a project described in section
18. 64.030 from the requirement to secure a plot plan when the Zoning Administrator determines
that the purpose and intent set forth in Section 18. 64. 010 can be achieved without processing a
plot plan application.
Ord. No. 2012- 12, Added, 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18.64.040 Pre-Application Conference Procedure for Site Development Plans
A. Prior to submittal of a site development plan application the sponsor of a project
is encouraged, but not required, to request a Pre-Application Conference with City staff. In
addition, the Zoning Administrator may require a pre-application conference for any site
development plan application and/ or proposed exemptions to the site development plan
requirements as described in Section 18. 64.030. Objectives of the Pre-Application Conference
include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. To familiarize sponsors of projects with City regulations and the concerns
of City departments prior to preparation of development plans.
2. To familiarize department representatives with proposed projects and
provide an opportunity for an exchange of views on project characteristics that are of mutual
concern.
3. To enable the Zoning Administrator to discuss project impacts with
representatives of other City departments, agencies, or utilities prior to making an environmental
determination.
4. To allow City departmental, agency or utility representatives to discuss
potentially significant environmental impacts, the nature of mitigation measures, and the need
for background studies to be submitted with the project application.
B. A request for a Pre-Application Conference shall be initiated by filing the
following items with the Zoning Administrator:
1. A pre-application letter requesting concept plan review and stating that
the applicant is the property owner or authorized agent; and
2. Twelve copies of the following:
a. A conceptual site plan and vicinity map showing the
relationship of the site plan to the surrounding area.
b. Preliminary calculations in tabular form showing
compliance with applicable density, coverage, floor area, parking, and open- space regulations.
C. Conceptual elevations of proposed structures and signs,
with exterior materials and openings indicated.
C. Upon receipt of a Pre- Application Conference request, the Zoning Administrator
shall set a time and place for the conference, transmit notice of the meeting and a copy of all
required plans and materials to each affected City department, agency or utility and mail a
notice of the meeting to the applicant. The conference shall be held within 15 working days of
18. 64 (3) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
the date the request is received, unless the applicant requests a later date.
D. At the Pre-Application Conference, the Zoning Administrator may indicate
environmental constraints which, on the preliminary review, appear to be associated with the
proposed project. The Zoning Administrator shall describe the requirements of the site
development plan review process. Department representatives shall:
1. Identify any concerns based on preliminary review of project plans and
materials.
2. Discuss the project with the applicant to establish an understanding of the
applicant's intent.
3. Review the preliminary determinations of the Zoning Administrator,
including potential significant environmental impacts, the nature of any mitigation measures, and
any background studies that may be required with the project site development plan application.
E. All determinations by the Zoning Administrator and City departmental
representatives relating to mandatory requirements as set forth in the Municipal Code and
relevant ordinances of the City of Vista shall be incorporated into the site development plan
application. If said determinations are not incorporated, the applicant risks rejection of
application because of noncompliance with mandatory provisions of the Municipal code and
relevant ordinances.
Recommendations of the Zoning Administrator and the City departmental
representatives discussed during the conference which do not relate to mandatory requirements
may be incorporated into the required site development plan application documents as desired
by the applicant.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18. 64.050 Site Development Plan Application Procedure
The Zoning Administrator shall prepare and provide the necessary application forms for
the site development and plot plans, including the information, plans, drawings and
documentation which shall accompany each application. The required information shall include
the submittal of a conceptual landscape plan, and where applicable, a comprehensive sign
program. The application forms may be obtained from the City Planning Department and shall
be submitted to the Office of the Zoning Administrator.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18.64.060 Review and Evaluation Procedure
A. Site development and plot plans shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Zoning
Administrator for compliance with the standards listed below. However, any provisions in
Section 18. 64.060 governing the time in which a City official is to act shall, in all instances, be
deemed directory, rather than mandatory. The standards are:
1. Applicable elements of the General Plan Zoning District Regulations;
Design Review Manual, including the community' s goals and objectives as established by said
documents; all City ordinances, City policies, state laws, and applicable safety codes.
2. Specific conditions of approval that have been levied as a result of any
previous discretionary approval( s); examples of which include, but are not limited to the
following: subdivision map, specific plan, special use permit, etc.
3. The provision of required on and off-site improvements to implement the
purpose and intent of this Ordinance and the City' s design and development standards.
B. Subsequent to the submittal of a site development or plot plan application, it shall
be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for completeness and compliance with the filing
18. 64 (4) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
instructions/ requirements. Incomplete applications shall be rejected and/ or returned to the
applicant within ten working days to be completed.
C. After an application is complete for a site development plan, a public hearing
shall be scheduled to consider the application, with notice of the time and place of the hearing
being provided to all property owners within 500 feet of the project site. Plot plans applications
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator shall be considered administratively without a noticed
hearing.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18. 64.070 Actions on Applications
A. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or City Council shall approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove an application for a site development plan. Said action
shall be in the form of a resolution which shall make all findings set forth in Section
18. 64.060A1, 2, 3.
1. If the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or City Council finds
that the site development or plot plan conforms to the requirements of this code and other
pertinent laws and ordinances, the General Plan, zoning ordinances, Design Review Manual,
City policies, and that the fees have been paid, the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission,
or City Council shall approve the site development or plot plan.
2. A copy of the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or City Council
action shall be sent to the applicant, the Planning Commission, the City Council and all persons
who commented on the project.
B. The Zoning Administrator may refer the site development plan, along with his
recommendation for approval, conditional approval, or disapproval to the Planning Commission
for their consideration and action pursuant to Section 18.64.070C below. As a minimum, the
following projects shall be referred to the Planning Commission:
1. Residential projects containing more than 10 units.
2. Commercial office, and quasi- public projects proposing more than 10, 000
square feet of floor area.
3. Industrial projects proposing more than 20, 000 square feet of floor area.
4. Any project which requires an Environmental Impact Report.
5. Any project which in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator will generate
substantial public controversy or appears to be in conflict with the Design Review Manual.
6. Projects which in the Zoning Administrator's opinion are in conflict with
the purpose and intent of this chapter as specified in Section 18. 64. 010.
C. A public hearing shall be required for any site development or plot plan referred
to the Planning Commission and/ or City Council. The Planning Commission and/ or City Council
may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove an application for a site development or plot
plan in accordance with Section 18. 64. 070.
D. A copy of the Planning Commission and/ or City Council action shall be sent to
the applicant and all persons who commented on the project.
Prior Code Appendix A 2801; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18. 64.080 Appeal of Zoning Administrator and/ or Planning Commission Action
The action of the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission in approving,
conditionally approving, or denying a site development or plot plan may be appealed pursuant to
Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code Appendix A 2802; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
18. 64 (5) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.64.090 Conformance of Subsequent Development Permits with the
Approved Site Development and Plot Plan
A. All approved building plans shall include a certification by the architect or
designer that the building plans conform to the approved site development or plot plan. A copy
of the approved site development or plot plan shall be attached to the approved building plans
and maintained at the project site for ease of reference.
B. No grading, construction or other improvement shall take place on a project site
subject to any approved site development or plot plan; nor shall any activity ( land use) be
located thereon except in conformance with the approved site development or plot plan.
Prior Code Appendix A 2803; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18.64. 100 Expiration and Extension
A. Any approval of a site development or plot plan shall expire within one year of
such approval except where construction in reliance on such approval has commenced prior to
its expiration.
B. If construction on the property in reliance on a site development or plot plan
approval has not commenced within the one-year period, an extension of approval may be
granted by the Zoning Administrator for a period not exceeding one year from the date of
expiration of the original approval.
1. Applications for extension of time shall be filed in writing with the zoning
administrator no later than 60 days prior to the expiration date of the approval period.
2. Applications for extensions may be required to conform with policies,
procedures and standards in effect at the time of the request for extension. The Zoning
Administrator shall consult with other City departments to determine if their policies, procedures,
and standards have changed.
C. A site development or plot plan for which construction has commenced as set
forth in Subsection A of this section shall remain valid and effective for a period of three years
from the date of final approval by the City of the site development or plot plan, provided that the
actual construction shall have commenced within the period set forth in Subsections A or B of
this section.
Prior Code Appendix A 2804; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 94-24, Amended, 10/ 25/ 94;
Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18.64. 110 Fees
The fees for the various site development or plot plan applications shall be established
by resolution of the City Council and may be amended from time to time to ensure recovery of
the necessary cost for processing such applications.
Prior Code Appendix A 2805; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91; Ord. No. 91- 41, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91;
Ord. No. 2012- 12, Amended 10/ 9/ 12)
Section 18.64. 120 Variance from Provisions
Prior Code Appendix A 2806; Ord. No. 91- 41, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18. 64. 130 Special Use and Other Permits
Prior Code Appendix A 2806. 5; Ord. No. 91- 41, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
18. 64 (6) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. M. 140. Conformance
Prior Code Appendix A 2807; Ord. No. 91- 41, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18.64. 150 Expiration
Prior Code Appendix A 2808; Ord. No. 91- 41, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 18.64. 160 Fees
Prior Code Appendix A 2809; Ord. No. 91- 41, Repealed, 12/ 10/ 91)
18. 64 (7) Vista 2/ 14/20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 66
Minor Use Permits
Sections:
18. 66.010 Special Land Uses Defined
18. 66.020 Minor Use Permits  Defined - When Required
18. 66.030 Minor Use Permits  Procedure
18. 66.035 Minor Use Permits  Procedures for ABC-Licensed Uses
18. 66.040 Special Land Use Conditions
18. 66.050 Animals
18. 66.060 Aviaries
18. 66.070 Chinchilla Raising
18. 66.080 Clubs and Lodges
18. 66.090 Commercial Coaches
18. 66. 100 Day Care and Boarding of Children
18. 66. 110 Guesthouses
18. 66. 120 Restaurants or Drive- In Eating Establishments Which Have Outdoor
Seating Facilities
18. 66. 130 Parks
18. 66. 140 Public Buildings and Uses
18. 66. 150 Recreational Facilities
18. 66. 160 Recycling Processing Facilities
18. 66. 170 Rental/ Leasing of Motor Vehicles and Trailers
18. 66. 180 Schools
18. 66. 190 Subdivision Signs
Section 18.66.010 Special Land Uses Defined
Special land uses" means those land uses which, being temporary or unusual in nature,
are in need of more regulation than most uses, but are not of such impact so as to require the
findings necessary for the granting of a special use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 3000)
Section 18. 66.020 Minor Use Permits - Defined - When Required
A. " Minor use permits ( MUP)" means permits granted for the special land uses set
forth in this chapter.
B. No use defined as a special land use shall be permitted unless and until a MUP
is granted for such use, nor shall any such special land use be permitted unless all conditions
required by the MUP are adhered to.
Prior Code Appendix A 3001)
Section 18. 66.030 Minor Use Permits - Procedure
A. All MUPs must be issued by the Zoning Administrator according to the following
procedure:
1. All MUP applications must be submitted to the Planning Division on forms
supplied by the division.
18. 66 ( l) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Within 30 days of the date of a complete submittal of an application for a
minor use permit, the Zoning Administrator or his designee shall hold a hearing on the
application notice which was given pursuant to Section 18. 04.060B. After the hearing, the
Zoning Administrator shall make a decision on the MUP.
3. An appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be filed
pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
B. Conditions. In approving or denying an MUP, the Director of Planning may
condition the MUP as he deems necessary to minimize the impact of the special land use on the
city as a whole and the area surrounding the operation in particular. As a minimum, the
following conditions shall be placed on the granting of a minor use permit:
1. The special land use must be a permitted use in the zone in which it is
located.
2. All conditions required for approval of the use in this chapter must be
conditions of the permit.
3. The Zoning Administrator may impose such additional conditions as he
deems are necessary to meet the intent of this chapter.
C. Findings.
1. In approval of a Minor Use Permit, the Zoning Administrator, or on appeal
of the City Council or Planning Commission, must make the same findings required for special
use permit in Section 18. 74. 120. These findings are in addition to those required elsewhere in
this code.
D. Time Limits.
1. Each permit shall specify the length of time that the permit is effective.
E. Display of Permit.
1. All special land uses shall conspicuously display the MUP granted for the
use for view of the public at large, unless this condition is waived by the Director of Planning or
the Planning Commission. Failure to display the permit shall be deemed a violation of the
permit.
F. Notwithstanding paragraphs A through E, an MUP for a Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control (ABC)- licensed use shall be reviewed using the procedures set forth in
Section 18. 66.035.
Prior Code Appendix A 3002; Ord. No. 1991- 18, Amended 07/ 19/ 91; Ord. No. 1994- 14, Amended
05/ 24/ 94; Ord. No 2014- 8, Amended to Add 03/ 25/ 14; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18. 66.035 Minor Use Permits  Procedures for ABC-Licensed Uses
A. General. An applicant seeking an MUP for an ABC- licensed use anywhere in the
City shall be governed by the general procedures of Section 18. 66.030, except when the use is
a qualifying ABC-licensed use which shall be governed by the procedures in paragraph C of this
Section.
B. Definitions.
1. ABC- licensed use" means any primary use allowed in a zone where the
business or use: ( 1) will engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages whether those sales are retail
only or a combination of retail and wholesale, will expand the area of land in which alcoholic
beverages sales occur, or will intensify the use of land for the sale of alcoholic beverages
through a licensing change or other change; and ( 2) such sales activities do not otherwise
require the business or use to obtain a Special Use Permit or MUP under this Code.
2. Qualifying ABC-licensed use" means any ABC- licensed use with a
pending MUP application in which the applicant has consented to the standard conditions for
ABC-licensed uses. Such standard conditions shall be set by resolution of the City Council from
time to time.
18. 66 ( 2) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
C. Procedures for MUPs Involving ABC- Licensed Uses. MUPs for qualifying ABClicensed
uses shall be reviewed, issued, or denied according to the following procedure:
1. MUP applications must be submitted to the Planning Division on forms
supplied by the division.
a. The application shall identify the primary use occurring on the
property or proposed to occur on the property.
b. The application shall identify the nature of the alcohol sales which
are scheduled to occur on the property and the type of license which the applicant proposes to
obtain from the ABC.
C. The application shall provide such other information as may be
reasonably required by the Community Development Director.
d. The application shall include, as an attachment, a copy of the
standard conditions for ABC-licensed uses with evidence that the applicant has agreed to
accept those conditions should an MUP be issued.
e. The application shall be accompanied by an application fee, if any,
set by resolution of the City Council.
2. Within 20 days of receipt of a complete application, the Zoning
Administrator shall review and act on the application. The application shall be approved, without
a hearing, if all of the following are confirmed:
a. The primary use conducted or to be conducted on the property is
permitted in the zone without the need of a special use permit or MUP, and the proposed sales
of alcohol are not legally prohibited at the location of the proposed use.
b. The license sought by the applicant from the ABC, if obtained, will
be sufficient to authorize the applicant's proposed activities which are subject to regulation by
the ABC.
C. The applicant has accepted the standard conditions for ABClicensed
uses.
3. The application shall be denied unless all of the requirements set forth in
paragraph 2 are satisfied. If the application is denied, a notice of denial, explaining the basis for
denial, shall be delivered by the Zoning Administrator to the applicant.
4. An action denying an application shall be subject to one written request
for reconsideration made to the Zoning Administrator within ten days of the date of the denial
notice which shall explain why the applicant disagrees with the determination of the Zoning
Administrator. Within 20 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration, the Zoning
Administrator shall review and act on the request for reconsideration by providing a written
determination to the applicant. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, the decision of
Zoning Administrator following reconsideration shall be final and not subject to further review.
5. Once an MUP is issued, it shall be subject to modification or revocation in
accordance with Section 18. 74.280.
Ord. No. 2014- 8, Added, 03/ 25/ 14; Ord. No. 2015- 14, Amended 8/ 11/ 15)
Section 18. 66.040 Special Land Use Conditions
All special land uses must be listed in this chapter as well as in the zoning regulations of
the zone in which it is provided. All special land uses shall be listed alphabetically in this
chapter. Each such use shall be listed in a separate section of this chapter and shall include any
special conditions required for granting of the minor use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 3003; Ord. No. 1980- 10, Amended to Add 03/24/80)
18. 66 ( 3) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.66.050 Animals
Where the granting of a minor use permit is required for the keeping of animals, the
following conditions must be met:
A. An application for a minor use permit for the keeping of animals shall be made to
the Director of Planning.
B. The Director of Planning may approve a minor use permit for keeping of animals
as provided for elsewhere in the zoning ordinance.
C. The applicant for the minor use permit, as part of the application, shall provide
the Director of Planning with written consent of the majority of property owners of each parcel of
land within 300 feet of the boundary of the site of the proposed minor use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 3010)
Section 18. 66.060 Aviaries
In granting a minor use permit for an aviary, the Director of Planning shall follow the
same criteria set forth in Section 18. 66. 050.
Prior Code Appendix A 3005)
Section 18. 66.070 Chinchilla Raising
Chinchilla raising" means raising for commercial or other purposes of more than 25
chinchillas on any building site.
Prior Code Appendix A 3017)
Section 18. 66.080 Clubs and Lodges
Clubs" and " lodges" means recognized fraternal or service organizations not operated
for profit.
Prior Code Appendix A 3019)
Section 18. 66.090 Commercial Coaches
A minor use permit may be granted subject to the following conditions and the hearing
officer may levy such other conditions as may be determined reasonably necessary:
A. The use of any commercial coach shall be limited to a period of time not
to exceed eighteen months.
B. Any commercial coach shall be removed from the project site upon
expiration of the minor use permit or any building permit issued on the project site, whichever is
first.
C. Commercial coaches shall not be permitted on any project site unless a
building permit for a permanent structure is issued concurrently with the minor use permit.
D. Any commercial coach to be placed on a project site shall comply with all
applicable building and fire codes or any other applicable law or regulation.
Prior Code Appendix A 3018)
Section 18. 66. 100 Day Care and Boarding of Children
Day care" and " boarding of children" means the professional supervised care of children
on a full- time or part-time basis.
Prior Code Appendix A 3025)
18. 66 ( 4) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 66. 110 Guesthouses
One guesthouse is permitted on a lot or building site having an area of not less than
10, 000 square feet.
Prior Code Appendix A 3050)
Section 18. 66. 120 Restaurants or Drive- In Eating Establishments Which Have Outdoor
Seating Facilities
Prior Code Appendix A 3081. 5; Ord. No. 1992- 16, Repealed 09/ 08/ 92)
Section 18. 66. 130 Parks
Parks consisting of public and or private parks may be approved by the Director of
Planning, including any uses normally conducted within a park. No additional minor use permits
or temporary use permits are needed for such normal operations, and any special operation that
may be designated in the approved permit; provided, that in addition to other conditions, the
Director of Planning may add time limits for any special activities.
Prior Code Appendix A 3072)
Section 18. 66. 140 Public Buildings and Uses
Public buildings and uses" means any building or use constituted or operated for or by a
governmental agency, special district or public or private utility or railroad, including all uses
normally appurtenant or deemed appurtenant by the City to the primary use. Public buildings
and uses shall not include recreational uses, schools or parks unless these uses are not
regulated elsewhere or unless these uses are appurtenant to the primary public use. The
applicable portion of this section shall not apply to that zoning district where the use is otherwise
allowed in the zoning district.
Prior Code Appendix A 3075)
Section 18. 66. 150 Recreational Facilities
Recreational facilities" means and includes public or private golf, tennis, swimming,
polo, riding, hunting or similar sporting facilities, except those included as part of a public park.
Such facilities also include all necessary service and accompanying facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 3079; Ord. No. 1981- 74, Amended to Add, 12/ 14/ 81)
Section 18. 66. 160 Recycling Processing Facilities
Recycling processing facilities are subject to the provisions of the applicable zoning
district regulations and Chapter 18. 64.
Prior Code Appendix A 3013)
Section 18. 66. 170 Rental/ Leasing of Motor Vehicles and Trailers
A. Rental/ leasing of motor vehicles and trailers, other than in a vehicle sales lot,
may be approved where the activity is an ancillary (secondary) use on a site containing another
use (which is considered the primary use; e. g., automobile service station or other retail sales or
service activity) and such use would result in an intensification of the primary use( s) on the site.
Such rentals may include commercial vehicles, house cars or trailers when specified by the use
permit.
18. 66 ( 5) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
B. The following limitations shall apply where the activity is to be located in a C- 1
zoning district:
1. Commercial vehicles shall be limited to those with no more than two axles
and not exceeding an overall length of 20 feet. Semi- tractors and semitrailers are specifically
excluded or prohibited.
2. Trailers shall be limited to those with only one axle and a maximum length
of 12 feet.
3. Commercial vehicles and trailers shall be limited to those designed to
transport cargo and not for human or animal occupancy.
Prior Code Appendix A 3081)
Section 18.66. 180 Schools
Schools" means any public or private educational facility and any accessory thereto.
Prior Code Appendix A 3082)
Section 18. 66. 190 Subdivision Signs
Subdivision signs may be allowed in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 18.64.
Prior Code Appendix A 3090)
18. 66 ( 6) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 67
Operations Use Permit
Sections:
18. 67.010 Operations Use Permit Defined
18. 67.020 Operations Use Permit Application
18. 67.030 Review of Application
18. 67.040 Termination of Operations Use Permit
18. 67.050 Parking Lots
18. 67.060 Fees
18. 67.070 Violation and Penalty
Section 18. 67.010 Operations Use Permit Defined
Operations use permit" means a permit issued in accordance with this chapter,
authorizing the placement of water vending machines and/ or the display merchandise for sale
outside a store frontage.
Ord. No. 93- 20, Enacted, 07/ 27/ 1993; Ord. No. 2005- 14, Amended, 06/ 28/2005)
Section 18. 67.020 Operations Use Permit Application
An application for an operations use permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator/ City Planner on such form as may be prescribed. At minimum, the application
shall include the following:
A. If the application seeks permission to display merchandise, the application shall
include a list of the specific items requested to be displayed for sale. Approval for display of the
items shall be given only if the items may be lawfully sold at that location under applicable laws,
regulations, ordinances, plans, and permit conditions. The display and sale of any item
authorized in a permit shall terminate if the outdoor display or sale of the item is no longer
permitted based on post-permit changes in laws, regulations or other land use controls.
B. A water vending machine may be approved only for a retail business which sells
food products and which has a tenant occupancy of at least 3,000 square feet within a building.
One additional water vending machine may be located at the premises if the tenant occupancy
exceeds 20,000 square feet. No location shall have more than two water vending machines.
C. All water vending machine or merchandise displays approved under this chapter
and all adjacent areas along the retail frontage shall be maintained in a neat and orderly
fashion. The stacking of furniture, appliances, or other large items is prohibited.
D. The display of merchandise shall be limited to a maximum depth and height of
five feet. A minimum five foot continuous walkway shall be maintained at all times.
E. The exact size and location of water vending machines and/ or the authorized
display or merchandise shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator/ City Planner.
F. The display of merchandise and/ or water vending machines shall not be located
along an area exceeding 25 percent of store' s frontage.
G. A plot plan shall be provided identifying the location of the merchandise displays,
water vending machines, and associated improvements if any.
H. A photo of the proposed site' s frontage.
Ord. No. 93- 20, Enacted, 07/ 27/ 1993; Ord. No. 2005- 14, Amended, 06/ 28/2005)
18. 67 ( l) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 67.030 Review of Application
The Zoning Administrator/ City Planner shall review all complete applications submitted
pursuant to this chapter. The application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator/ City
Planner determines that: ( 1) the proposed use can occur without interfering with the public
health, safety, or welfare; and ( 2) the proposed use is not inconsistent with the overall
appearance of the neighborhood and does not unduly affect the appearance of the site. The
Zoning Administrator/ City Planner may include conditions on an application if the Zoning
Administrator/ City Planner determines that the imposition of conditions is necessary to make
one or more of the findings set forth above. Any determination of the Zoning Administrator/ City
Planner under this section shall be set forth in writing.
Ord. No. 2005- 14, Added, 06/ 28/2005)
Section 18. 67.040 Termination of Operations Use Permit
The Zoning Administrator/ City Planner may terminate an operations use permit if the
Zoning Administrator/ City Planner determines that the use is operated in a manner that does not
satisfy clause ( 1) and/ or clause ( 2) of Section 18. 67.030. Rather than terminate an operations
use permit, the Zoning Administrator/ City Planner may add additional conditions to the permit.
Before revoking or additionally conditioning a permit, the Zoning Administrator/ City Planner shall
provide written notice to the permit holder of the proposed action, with the reason for the
proposed action. The notice shall advise the permit holder of any additional materials on which
the proposed action may be based and the method for reviewing those materials. In addition,
the notice shall advise the permit holder that materials and documents in opposition to the
proposed action can be submitted to the Zoning Administrator/City Planner by a specified date
of not less than 15 days from the date of the notice. The Zoning Administrator/ City Planner shall
consider the materials referenced in the notice and any materials submitted by the permit holder
in making a decision, which decision shall be set forth in writing. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary, an operations use permit shall terminate, by operation of law and without notice, upon
a change of occupancy.
Ord. No. 2005- 14, Added, 06/ 28/ 2005)
Section 18. 67.050 Parking Lots
The display of merchandise within the parking lot area shall be for promotional purposes
only subject to the issuance of an administrative temporary use permit pursuant to Chapter
18. 76 of the Development Code.
Ord. No. 2005- 14, Added, 06/ 28/2005)
Section 18. 67.060 Fees
A nonrefundable processing fee shall be paid prior to the acceptance of any application
for an operations use permit. Such fee shall be as established by resolution of the City Council
from time to time.
Ord. No. 2005- 14, Added, 06/ 28/2005)
Section 18. 67.070 Violation and Penalty
Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute a violation of the
Zoning Ordinance and subject to enforcement and penalty as is established by Chapter 18, 82,
as well as any other remedies allowed by law or the Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 2005- 14, Added, 06/ 28/2005)
18. 67 ( 2) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 68
Development Agreements
Sections:
18. 68.010 Purpose of Provisions
18. 68.020 Application of Provisions
18. 68.030 Initiation of Development Agreements
18. 68.040 Planning Commission - Hearing and Notice
18. 68.050 Planning Commission - Hearing Held When
18. 68.060 Planning Commission - Decision and Recommendation to City Council
18. 68.070 City Council - Hearing and Notice
18. 68.080 City Council - Decision
18. 68.090 City Council - Action Conclusive
18. 68. 100 City Council - Notice of Decision
18. 68. 110 Development Agreement Fees
18. 68. 120 Development Agreement Contents
18. 68. 130 Findings for Adoption of Agreement - Amendment Exceptions
18. 68. 140 Amendments to Agreement
18. 68. 150 Zoning Map Designations
18. 68. 160 Compliance with State and Federal Regulations
Section 18. 68.010 Purpose of Provisions
The purposes of the development agreements are:
A. To prevent the waste of resources that contributes to escalating costs of
development which in turn discourages investment and causes higher prices to consumers.
B. To assure applicants for development projects that, upon approval of their
project, they may proceed with the project in accordance with existing policies, rules and
regulations, and such assurance will strengthen the public planning process, encourage private
participation in comprehensive planning and reduce the economic costs of government.
C. To provide either supplementary regulations for, or to provide for exemption from
regulations of, when desirable, existing ordinances or development standards.
D. To enable the transfer or combination of development rights within project
borders, to result in either or both the securing or protection of open space or more efficient use
of the property without penalty to the applicant or violation of good planning principles.
E. Where permitted by ordinance, policy or other overriding state law, to permit the
negotiation for unit density for good design, provision of lower income housing or other features
mutually acceptable to the applicant and the City.
Prior Code Appendix A 3100)
Section 18. 68.020 Application of Provisions
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, welfare and good planning practice justify
such action, the City Council by ordinance may create a development agreement, only with the
voluntary and expressed desire of a project applicant.
Prior Code Appendix A 3101)
18. 68 ( l) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 68.030 Initiation of Development Agreements
Development agreements may be initiated by:
A. The application by an owner or the agent of such owner seeking development
agreement prescribed for his property or the application of a person authorized to exercise the
power of eminent domain;
B. The City Council
C. The Planning Commission
Prior Code Appendix A 3102)
Section 18. 68.040 Planning Commission - Hearing and Notice
Upon the filing of a proper application for an agreement or on order of the Planning
Commission or the City Council, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
thereon, and notice thereof shall be given as prescribed in Chapter 18. 04.
Prior Code Appendix A 3103)
Section 18. 68.050 Planning Commission - Hearing Held When
The hearing shall be held not later than 50 days following the filing of an application for
such agreement or order of the Planning Commission or the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 3104)
Section 18. 68.060 Planning Commission -Decision and Recommendation to City
Council
The Planning Commission shall announce its decision within 40 days following the
hearing and shall recommend the adoption of the agreement by the City Council, or recommend
that the application be denied by such Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 3105)
Section 18. 68.070 City Council - Hearing and Notice
Within 40 days following receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
City Council shall hold a public hearing on the matter, notice of which shall be given as
prescribed in Chapter 18. 04; provided, however, where the Planning Commission recommends
that the application be denied and makes no alternate recommendation, the City Council shall
not be required to hold a hearing on the matter, unless within a period of 15 days from the
decision of the Planning Commission the applicant files with the City Council a written request
that such council hold a hearing on the matter, or the council is the initiator of the project.
Prior Code Appendix A 3106)
Section 18. 68.080 City Council - Decision
The City Council shall announce its decision within 40 days following the hearing before
such Council required by this chapter, and such Council shall order the amendment to the
ordinance codified in this chapter or deny the application or recommendation for the amendment
by a three-fifths vote of all members of the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 3107)
18. 68 ( 2) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 68.090 City Council - Action Conclusive
The action by the City Council on the application or recommendation for development
agreements shall be final and conclusive.
Prior Code Appendix A 3108)
Section 18. 68. 100 City Council - Notice of Decision
Within ten days following the decision of the City Council ordering the adoption of the
ordinance or denying the application or recommendation for the amendment, the City Clerk shall
give notice of such decision to the applicant at the address shown on the application and to the
Planning Commission, and record with the County Recorder a copy of the agreement.
Prior Code Appendix A 3109)
Section 18. 68. 110 Development Agreement Fees
A. Filing fees for a development agreement, as provided for in this title, shall be set
by resolution by the City Council for the purpose of defraying the expense of investigation,
postage, posting, advertising and other costs incidental to the proceedings prescribed herein.
B. City permit fees for any project for which there is a development agreement shall
be the fees in effect at the time the permit is obtained.
Prior Code Appendix A 3111)
Section 18. 68. 120 Development Agreement Contents
The development agreement shall contain the following information:
A. A legal description of the total project.
B. A location map of the project and other documents sufficient to describe the
details of the development proposal and serve as exhibits of the agreement.
C. Recitals designating:
1. The time or sequence of events and duration of the agreement
2. The permitted uses of the property
3. The density or intensity of use
4. The maximum height and bulk of proposed buildings
5. The location and amount of dedicated or reserved open space
6. Provisions for reservation or dedication of land for any public purpose
D. Elevations and/ or plot plans where applicable to the proposal.
E. A condition requiring a periodic review of the project status; such review to occur
at least once every 12 months by the Planning Commission and/ or the City Council.
F. The City may levy a condition providing that construction shall start within a
certain time and that the project, or any phase thereof, be completed within a specified time.
G. The total duration of the development agreement shall be as set forth in the
agreement.
Prior Code Appendix A 3112; Ord. No. 92- 21, Amended, 11/ 10/ 92)
Section 18. 68. 130 Findings for Adoption of Agreement - Amendment Exceptions
A. The City, in adopting a development agreement ordinance, must find that each
and every term and condition of the agreement is consistent with the General Plan and any
applicable specific plan at the time of adoption.
18. 68 ( 3) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Once adopted, the development agreement shall withstand any subsequent
General Plan amendment, specific plan amendment or zoning ordinance amendment during the
duration of the agreement.
Prior Code Appendix A 3113)
Section 18. 68. 140 Amendments to Agreement
A. A development agreement may be amended or canceled in whole or in part:
1. By mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or their successors in
interest.
2. If, as a result of the periodic review condition, the City determines on the
basis of substantial evidence that the applicant or successor in interest thereof has not complied
in good faith with the conditions of the agreement, the City Council may terminate or modify the
agreement.
B. Amendment or cancellation of the agreement shall be accomplished at public
hearings outlined in Sections 18. 68.030 through 18. 68. 100.
Prior Code Appendix A 3114)
Section 18. 68. 150 Zoning Map Designations
A. After the date of adoption of the ordinance, and after the City Clerk has recorded
the development agreement, the borders of the project shall be shown on the zoning map and
the area titled " DA" with a number denoting the sequence of adoption, such as " DA- 1", " DA-2",
etc. During the duration of the agreement, the conditions of the underlying zone will be
superseded and rendered not in effect, and be overridden by the conditions of the agreement.
B. Upon cancellation or completion of a development agreement, the zoning
designations in existence immediately prior to the adoption of the agreement, unless otherwise
specified as part of the cancellation or conditions of completion of the agreement, shall be
reestablished.
Prior Code Appendix A 3115)
Section 18. 68. 160 Compliance with State and Federal Regulations
In the event that state and federal laws or regulations are enacted after a development
agreement has been entered into which prevent or preclude compliance with one or more
provisions of the development agreement, such provisions may be modified or suspended as
may be necessary to comply with such laws or regulations.
Prior Code Appendix A 3116)
18. 68 ( 4) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.70
Mobile Homes, Commercial Coaches and Mobile Home Parks
Sections:
18. 70.00A Article I. Mobile Homes and Commercial Coaches
18. 70. 010 Purpose and Intent of Provisions
18. 70.020 Application of Provisions
18. 70. 030 Criteria and Regulations - Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicles
18. 70.040 Commercial Coaches, Repealed
18. 70.050 Conversion Impact Reports - When Required
18. 70.060 Conversion Impact Reports - Contents
18. 70.070 Conversion Impact Reports - Filing
18. 70.080 Conversion Impact Reports - Review and Presentation
18. 70.090 Conversion Impact Report - Consideration and Conditions for Approval
18. 70. 100 Conversion Impact Reports - Statutory Authority Requirements
18. 70. 110 Provisions Deemed Cumulative
18. 70. 120 Sale of Mobile Home Parks
Section 18.70.00A Article I. Mobile Homes and Commercial Coaches
Section 18.70.010 Purpose and Intent of Provisions
A. Purpose. The purpose of this article is to permit the utilization of mobile homes,
recreational vehicles and commercial coaches within the city' s corporate limits.
B. Intent. The intent of this article is to establish criteria and regulations governing
the placement and utilization of mobile homes, recreational vehicles and commercial coaches
on individual lots, parcels or project sites within the city' s corporate limits.
Prior Code Appendix A 740)
Section 18.70.020 Application of Provisions
Mobile homes, recreational vehicles, as defined by Section 18215. 5 of the California
Health and Safety Code, and commercial coaches placed on individual lots, parcels or project
sites within the city shall be subject to the criteria and regulations set forth in this chapter in
addition to the applicable zoning district regulations.
Prior Code Appendix A 741)
Section 18.70.030 Criteria and Regulations - Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicles
A. A mobile home or recreational vehicle, as defined by Section 18215. 5 of the
California Health and Safety Code, may be placed on a building site in any residential zoning
district as a temporary residence, wherein single-family dwellings are permitted, during the
construction of one dwelling unit on the site subject to the following conditions:
1. It shall be occupied by no one other than the owner of the building site
and his/ her family.
2. It shall be connected to the public sewerage system or a private sewage
disposal system approved by the San Diego Department of Public Health.
3. The property owner shall obtain a permit from the Building Official for the
placement of the temporary residence on the building site. Such permit shall be valid for a
18. 70 ( l) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
period not to exceed six months and may be extended for one additional period of six months by
the building official. Such permit may be issued concurrently with the building permit for the
permanent dwelling to be constructed on the site and shall be null and void upon issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the permanent structure or upon expiration of the building permit,
whichever occurs first.
B. A mobile home, as defined by Section 18. 02.450, may be placed on any lot or
parcel where a single-family residence is permitted subject to all provisions of the applicable
zoning district regulations and the following criteria:
1. The roof shall have sloping lines with eaves, such as gable, mansard, and
shed- style roofs, or shall be compatible with conventionally built homes in the surrounding area.
2. The roofing material shall be shake, tile, composition shingle, or other
materials commonly found on conventionally built homes in the surrounding area.
3. The exterior covering material shall be similar or closely compatible to
that found on conventionally built residential structures in the surrounding area.
4. The exterior covering material shall extend to the ground. If a solid
concrete or masonry perimeter foundation is used, the exterior covering material shall not extend
below the top of the foundation.
5. The mobile home shall have a garage or carport meeting development
standards for the applicable zoning district and be similar in type and construction to those
found with conventionally built homes in the surrounding area.
6. The exterior covering and roofing materials of the garage or carport shall
be compatible with the materials on the mobile home.
7. The unit shall be attached to a permanent foundation as required by state
law.
Prior Code Appendix A 742)
Section 18.70.040 Commercial Coaches
Prior Code Appendix A 743; Ord. No. 91- 14, Repealed, 06/ 11/ 91)
Section 18. 70.049 Article II. Mobile Home Parks
Ord. No. 91- 14, Repealed, 06/ 11/ 91)
Section 18. 70.050 Conversion Impact Reports - When Required
A. Prior to the reclassification of property currently classified as an MHP zone, or
the change of a mobile home park to another land use, as defined in Section 798. 10 of the Civil
Code of the state, the person or entity proposing such a reclassification or change in land use
shall file a report on the impact of such action upon the displaced residents of the subject mobile
home park with the Director of Planning.
B. For the purposes of this section, the causing of a vacation of spaces from a
rental mobile home park by mass eviction shall constitute a change of use and be under the
provisions of this article.
C. No zoning reclassification or change of land use shall take place until such report
has been filed with and approved by the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 3200)
Section 18. 70.060 Conversion Impact Reports - Contents
In determining the impact of the conversion on displaced mobile home park residents, the
report shall address the following:
18. 70 ( 2) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. The availability of adequate replacement space in mobile home parks.
B. Whether the project is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable
specific plan.
C. Whether the project is compatible with surrounding land uses.
D. Whether the project is consistent with the provisions of the Housing Element of
the General Plan specifically with regard to the provision of adequate housing for all economic
segments of the community.
E. What provisions, if any, the person or entity proposing the change of use
proposes to make for the relocation of occupants of the mobile home park.
F. Whether the change of use adversely affects the availability of housing to the
lower income segment of the community.
Prior Code Appendix A 3201)
Section 18. 70.070 Conversion Impact Reports - Filing
In the case of changes of use pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act ( Division 2,
commencing with Section 66410 of Title 7 of the Government Code of the state), the report shall
be filed as required by Section 17. 12. 040 of this code. In all other cases the report shall be filed
not less than 120 days before the effective date of the proposed change of use.
Prior Code Appendix A 3202)
Section 18. 70.080 Conversion Impact Reports - Review and Presentation
The Director of Planning shall review the report and, in the case of a subdivision, shall
present the report along with his findings and recommendations at the hearing on the tentative
map. In all other cases, the Planning Director's findings and recommendations and the report shall
be presented within 30 days after filing of the report.
Prior Code Appendix A 3203
Section 18. 70.090 Conversion Impact Reports - Consideration and Conditions for
Approval
The Planning Commission and the City Council shall consider the report and disapprove,
approve, or conditionally approve the report. As a condition of the approval, the City Council may
require the person or entity to take steps to mitigate any adverse impact of the conversion on the
ability of displaced mobile home park residents to find adequate space in a mobile home park.
Prior Code Appendix A 3204)
Section 18.70. 100 Conversion Impact Reports - Statutory Authority Requirements
The requirements of Sections 65863.7 and 66427.4 of the Government Code shall apply to
reports required by this article.
Prior Code Appendix A 3205)
Section 18. 70. 110 Provisions Deemed Cumulative
The provisions of this article are cumulative and shall be in addition to any other applicable
requirements of state or local law.
Prior Code Appendix A 3206)
18. 70 ( 3) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 70. 120 Sale of Mobile Home Parks
A. Intent. The intent of this section is to encourage the sale of mobile home parks,
as defined in Section 18. 70. 050, to the residents of the park when feasible without coercion or
deprivation of the rights of the mobile home park owner.
B. Required Notice of Intent to Sell.
1. A mobile home park owner shall notify the tenants of his/ her mobile home
park by provision of written notice to each individual tenant at least 60 days in advance of the
date whereby the property is listed, advertised or otherwise offered for sale.
2. The mobile home park owner or his/ her agent shall file an affidavit with
the Director of Planning indicating the date the notice was sent or delivered, the manner in which
such notice was served, and a copy of this notice.
3. The notice shall contain reasonable details of the listed price of the park
and any conditions that would apply to a real estate transaction.
C. Responsibility of Tenants. It will subsequently be the responsibility of the mobile
home tenants to organize and compete for purchase of the park, should they desire.
D. Responsibility of Park Owner. It is the responsibility of the mobile home park
owner to notify the agent of the mobile home park residents of any changes in proposed listed
price or conditions of sale; provided, that the mobile home park residents have indicated in writing
their intent to offer to purchase the park.
Prior Code Appendix A 3207)
18. 70 ( 4) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 72
Nonconformity Regulations
Sections:
18. 72.010 Extending Nonconforming Use
17. 72.020 Continuing Nonconforming Use
18. 72.030 Maintaining Nonconforming Buildings
18. 72.040 Altering Nonconforming Buildings
18. 72.050 Nonconforming Use of Conforming Buildings
18. 72.060 Nonconforming Use of Nonconforming Buildings
18. 72.070 Reconstruction of Nonconforming Buildings
18. 72.080 Application of Provisions
18. 72.090 Minimum Area Requirement Criteria
18. 72. 100 Removal or Alteration of Nonconforming Buildings
18. 72. 110 Abatement Date Determined by Planning Commission
18. 72. 120 Conditions for New Conforming Uses
18. 72. 130 Exemptions from Provisions - Public Utility Buildings
18. 72. 140 Non- Permitted Single Family and Accessory Buildings
Section 18. 72.010 Extending Nonconforming Use
A nonconforming use of land or of a building shall not be expanded or extended in any
manner except as expressly permitted by the provisions of this code.
Prior Code Appendix A 3301)
Section 18. 72.020 Continuing Nonconforming Use
Except as provided in Sections 18. 72. 100 through 18. 72. 130, a nonconforming use of
land which does not involve buildings, may be continued. Any discontinuance of such
nonconforming use for a continuous period of six months shall be deemed to constitute an
abandonment of any right to continue or maintain such nonconforming use and any future use
of such shall conform to all provisions of this chapter; however, no nonconforming use of land
shall continue after a period of three years from the time the provisions of this section become
applicable to such land, subject to notice and hearing before the Planning Commission to
terminate such nonconforming use.
Prior Code Appendix A 3302)
Section 18. 72.030 Maintaining Nonconforming Buildings
Except as provided in Sections 18. 72. 100 through 18. 72. 130, a nonconforming building
may be maintained provided no additions or enlargements are made thereto and no structural
alterations are made therein, except those required by law or expressly permitted by this code.
Prior Code Appendix A 3303)
Section 18. 72.040 Altering Nonconforming Buildings
A building or structure which does not conform to the yard or height regulations
applicable to the land on which such building or structure is located may be structurally altered
or enlarged only when:
18. 72 ( l) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. The exterior horizontal dimensions are not changed.
B. The alteration or enlargement causes the building or structure to conform with
the applicable yard regulations.
C. The alteration or enlargement does not project into any required yard.
D. The alteration or enlargement is an extension of that portion of the existing
building or structure that encroaches in a required yard; provided, however, the alteration or
enlargement shall not extend into the required yard further than the existing portion and shall
have an area no greater than 50 percent of the area of the existing portion within the required
yard.
Prior Code Appendix A 3304)
Section 18. 72.050 Nonconforming Use of Conforming Buildings
A. Where a nonconforming use of a conforming building exists at the time the
provisions of this code become applicable to such building so as to make the use thereof a
nonconforming use, such nonconforming use may be continued and such nonconforming use
may be expanded or extended throughout such building, provided no structural alterations are
made therein except those required by law. Any discontinuance of such nonconforming use for
a continuous period of six months shall be deemed to constitute an abandonment of any right to
continue or maintain such nonconforming use and future use of such building shall conform to
the provisions of this code. If no structural alterations are made or required, a nonconforming
use of a conforming building may be changed to another use of the same or more restrictive
classification upon the approval of a standard site development plan.
B. The Planning Commission may, at any time by their own initiation or by the
direction of the City Council, conduct a public hearing for the purpose of abating a
nonconforming use of a conforming building. The Planning Commission, based on the evidence
received at the public hearing, may set a reasonable amortization period for the abatement of a
nonconforming use; provided, that no amortization period shall be less than five years from the
construction date of the building in question, or less than one year from the date of occupancy
of the use in question, unless it can be found and determined that the use or the building
constitutes a public nuisance, in which case abatement shall occur pursuant to the City's
nuisance abatement procedures.
C. Bars and/ or cocktail lounges which are made nonconforming by the applicability
of this code may be continued subject to the provisions of this chapter; however, upon receipt of
evidence that the operation of any bar or cocktail lounge, or other nonconforming features of
such ( e. g., inadequate on- site parking), is causing a nuisance in the area in which such bar or
cocktail lounge is located, the City Council is authorized to hold a public hearing, with notice as
prescribed in Section 18. 04.060 et seq. The purpose of the hearing shall be to accept testimony
for the purpose of determining whether or not the operation of the bar or cocktail lounge is
creating a public nuisance. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the City Council shall
determine whether or not a nuisance does in fact exist. If the Council determines a public
nuisance does in fact exist, the Council shall then determine what action is necessary to correct
or abate the nuisance and to establish a reasonable period of time for such correction or
abatement to occur.
Prior Code Appendix A 3305)
Section 18. 72.060 Nonconforming Use of Nonconforming Buildings
Subject to the provisions of Sections 18. 72. 100 through 18. 72. 130, the nonconforming
use of a nonconforming building may be expanded or extended throughout such building,
provided no structural alterations are made therein except those required by law. Any
18. 72 (2) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
discontinuance of such nonconforming use for a continuous period of six months shall be
deemed to constitute abandonment of any right to continue or maintain such nonconforming use
and any future use of such building shall conform to the provisions of this code. If no structural
alterations are made or required, a nonconforming use of a nonconforming building may be
changed to another use of the same or more restrictive classification upon the granting of a
special use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 3306)
Section 18. 72.070 Reconstruction of Nonconforming Buildings
A. A nonconforming building, with the exception of a multifamily dwelling located in
a zone other than an industrial zone, destroyed to the extent of not more than 75 percent of its
assessed value by fire, explosion or other casualty or act of God, or the public enemy, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such partial destruction may be recontinued subject to all
other provisions of this chapter.
B. A nonconforming multifamily dwelling, with the exception of a dwelling located in
an industrial zone, which is involuntarily damaged or destroyed by fire, other catastrophic event,
or the public enemy may be restored and the occupancy or use of such partial destruction may
be recontinued subject to all other provision of this chapter, unless the Planning Commission
determines that:
1. The reconstruction, restoration or rebuilding will be detrimental to health,
safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood, or will be
detrimental or injurious to property and improvements in the neighborhood.
2. The existing nonconforming use of the building or structure would be
more appropriately moved to a zone in which the use is permitted, or that there no longer exists
a zone in which the existing nonconforming use is permitted.
C. Any reconstruction, restoration or rebuilding of a multifamily dwelling undertaken
pursuant to this section shall conform to all of the following:
1. The California Building Standards Code as that code was in effect at the
time of reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding.
2. Any more restrictive building standards adopted by the City Council as
authorized by Health and Safety Code Sections 13869. 7, 17958. 7, and 18941. 5 as those
standards were in effect at the time of reconstruction, restoration or rebuilding.
3. The State Historical Building Code Part 2. 7 ( commencing with Section
18950) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code) for work on qualified historical buildings or
structures.
4. All zoning ordinances in this code, as long as the pre-damage size and
number of dwelling units are maintained. Architectural regulations and standards, as long as
the pre- damage size and number of dwelling units are maintained.
5. A building permit, which shall be obtained within two years after the date
of the damage or destruction.
D. For the purpose of this section, " multifamily dwelling" is defined as any structure
designed for human habitation that is divided into two or more independent living quarters.
Prior Code Appendix A 3307; Ord. No. 96- 20, Amended, 10/ 22/ 96)
Section 18. 72.080 Application of Provisions
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to buildings, structures, land, and uses which
hereafter become nonconforming due to any reclassification of zones or land under this code.
Prior Code Appendix A 3308)
18. 72 (3) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 72.090 Minimum Area Requirement Criteria
Any lot or building site shall be deemed to meet the minimum area requirement of the
zoning district in which it is located, subject to the following criteria:
A. It existed as an entire lot, or an entire parcel for which either a deed was of
record in the Office of the County Recorder or a bona fide contract of sale was in full force and
effect prior to the date it was first reclassified to cause the nonconformity.
B. The owner thereof owns no adjoining land.
C. It is not the result of a division of land in violation of any state law or city
ordinance.
Prior Code Appendix A 3309)
Section 18. 72. 100 Removal or Alteration of Nonconforming Buildings
A. Residential Zoning Districts. Every nonconforming building in the subject zoning
districts, with the exception of residential, church and school ( public or private) buildings, which
nonconforming building was designed or intended for use no longer permitted in the subject
zoning district in which it is located, shall be completely removed or altered to structurally
conform to the uses permitted in the zoning district in which it is located within the herein
specified times upon notice from the Planning Commission, which time is measured from the
date of construction. In no case shall this period of time be less than five years from the date of
construction of the building unless the building can be determined to constitute a public
nuisance or a detriment to the health, safety and welfare, in which case, abatement can be set
at any reasonable time as may be determined by the evidence received at the public hearing.
Except where the buildings or uses constitute a nuisance or detriment to the health,
safety and welfare, the following abatement amortization periods are applicable:
1. If property is unimproved except for structures of a type for which the
existing Building Code does not require a building permit: one year.
2. Agricultural accessory buildings and structures: five years, unless the
buildings and structures are used for raising rabbits, poultry and animals in which event the
accessory buildings and structures shall be removed or altered to structurally conform to the
uses permitted in the zoning district in accordance with Subdivision 6 of this section.
3. Type I buildings:
a. Offices and hotels: 45 years from date of building construction.
b. Theaters: 50 years from date of building construction.
C. Warehouses, lofts, stores, garages: 45 years from date of building
construction.
d. Industrial: 35 years from date of building construction.
4. Type II and Type III buildings:
a. Apartments, offices, hotels or residences having stores or offices
below and apartments or office above: 35 years from date of building construction; however,
residential apartments may be amortized for any reasonable period of time determined by
evidence received at the Planning Commission' s public hearing if the units do not meet all
standards and requirements for such residential units.
b. Warehouses, stores, garages and lofts: 35 years from date of
building construction.
C. Factories and industrial: 45 years from date of building
construction.
5. Type IV and Type V buildings: 40 years from date of building
construction.
18. 72 (4) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
6. Agricultural accessory buildings and structures used for raising rabbits,
poultry, and animals shall be removed or altered to structurally conform to the uses permitted in
the zoning district in which they are located after a hearing before the Planning Commission as
follows:
a. Upon the adoption of an order by the Planning Commission or the
City Council, the Planning Commission shall give notice of a public hearing, as provided by
Section 18. 04.060 et seq. of this code, of the intention of the Planning Commission to consider
at a public hearing the abatement of the nonconforming use of any accessory buildings and/ or
structures used for the raising of rabbits, poultry or animals.
b. Subject to the provisions of Subdivision ( 6)( c) of this subsection,
all such accessory buildings or structures are hereby granted an automatic exception for a
period of eight years from the effective date of the adoptive ordinance, or in those cases of
future annexation of affected property, eight years after consummation of such annexation and
such automatic exception shall terminate without further hearing at the expiration of such eight
years; provided, however, in the event the accessory buildings and structures are not removed
or abated at the termination of the automatic exception period, the Planning Commission shall
hold a hearing to determine whether or not the accessory buildings and structures are in
violation of this code. In the event the Planning Commission finds such accessory buildings and
structures to be in violation of this code, it shall order the abatement thereof within 90 days.
C. After hearing by the Planning Commission, the automatic
exception provided in Subdivision ( 6)( b) of this subsection may be modified or revoked at any
time in less than such eight-year period upon findings that:
i. The use for which the building or structure is used is
detrimental to the public health or safety or so as to be a public nuisance; or
ii. Where such use can be revoked without the impairment of
constitutional rights of the operator of the nonconforming use upon consideration of the value of
the improvements, the replacement cost less depreciation, and the ability of such improvements
to be relocated at reasonable expense to the operator of the nonconforming use.
d. The Planning Commission shall consider the depreciation period
to commence from the date of construction of such accessory buildings and structures or the
use of a substantial portion thereof, whichever first occurs.
e. Any action of the Planning Commission under Subdivision 6 of this
subsection shall be subject to appeal in the same manner as provided for appeals from
decisions of the Planning Commission under Chapter 18. 04.
B. Commercial Zoning Districts. Every nonconforming building in a commercial
zoning district with the exception of hospital, church or school buildings shall be completely
removed or altered to conform to those uses permitted in the commercial zoning district in which
such building is located within the herein specified times upon notice from the Planning
Commission, which times are measured from the date of construction. Any abatement period
shall be for a reasonable period of time based on information provided by an appraiser and
other circumstances affecting the property. As used in this section, the designations Type I
building, Type 11 building, Type III building, Type IV building and Type V building are employed
as defined in the existing Building Code. Unless determined at a public hearing to be a
nuisance or other detriment to the health, safety and welfare of the community, the following
minimum abatement amortization periods are established:
1. Where property is unimproved except for structures of a type for which
the existing Building Code does not require a building permit: one year from date of building
construction.
2. Agricultural accessory buildings and structures: five years from date of
construction or annexation to the City.
3. Type I buildings:
18. 72 (5) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
a. Offices and hotels: 45 years from date of construction
b. Theaters: 50 years from date of construction
C. Warehouses, lofts, stores, garages: 45 years from date of
construction.
d. Industrial: 35 years from date of construction.
4. Type II and Type III buildings:
a. Apartments, offices, hotels or residences having stores or offices
below and apartments or offices above: 35 years; however, residential apartments may be
amortized for any reasonable period of time determined by evidence received at the Planning
Commission' s public hearing if the units do not meet all standards and requirements for such
residential uses.
b. Warehouses, stores, garages, and lofts: 35 years from the date of
construction.
C. Factories and industrial: 45 years from date of construction.
5. Type IV and Type V buildings: 40 years from the date of construction.
C. Industrial Zoning Districts. Every nonconforming building in the subject zoning
districts, with the exception of hospital, church and school ( public and private) buildings, which
nonconforming building was designed or intended for a use not permitted in the subject zoning
district in which it is located, shall be completely removed or altered to structurally conform to
the uses permitted in the zoning district in which it is located within the herein specified times
upon notice from the Planning Commission, which time is measured from the date of
construction. Any abatement period shall be for a reasonable period of time based on
information provided by an appraiser and other circumstances affecting the property. As used
in this section, the designations Type I building, Type II building, Type III building, Type IV
building and Type V building are employed as defined in the existing Building Code. Unless
determined at a public hearing to be a nuisance or other detriment to the health, safety and
welfare of the community, the following minimum abatement amortization periods are
established:
1. Where property is unimproved except for structures of a type for which
the existing Building Code does not require a building permit: one year from the date of
construction.
2. Agricultural accessory buildings and structures: five years from date of
construction or annexation to the City.
3. Type I buildings:
a. Offices and hotels: 45 years from date of construction
b. Theaters: 50 years from date of construction
C. Warehouses, lofts, stores, garages: 45 years from date of
construction.
d. Industrial: 35 years from date of construction.
4. Type II or Type III buildings:
a. Apartments, offices, hotels or residences having stores or offices
below and apartments or offices above: 35 years; however, residential apartments may be
amortized for any reasonable period of time determined by evidence received at the Planning
Commission' s public hearing if the units do not meet all standards and requirements for such
use.
b. Warehouses, stores, garages and lofts: 35 years from date of
construction.
C. Factories and industrial: 45 years from date of construction.
5. Type IV and Type V buildings: 40 years from date of construction.
Prior Code Appendix A 3310)
18. 72 (6) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18.72. 110 Abatement Date Determined by Planning Commission
A. When any nonconforming conditions exist in any zoning district, other than the
nonconforming use of land when no structure is involved, it shall be the responsibility of the
Planning Commission, on its own initiative, or upon referral of the City Council, to make a formal
determination of the date upon which the nonconforming building was established.
B. It shall also be the responsibility of the Planning Commission to determine
whether, by reason of structural alterations or enlargement, or the installation of major
equipment designed into the building prior to the effective date of the amendment codified in this
section, it is deemed necessary to establish a later date for abatement than that prescribed
herein for the building in order to assure that the investment represented by such structural
alterations, enlargements or equipment installations may be amortized.
C. In performing this function, the commission shall consider all pertinent data in
connection therewith to provide the opportunity for the owner of record, lien holder, if any,
lessee, if there be such, to present such evidence as they may possess and which properly
relates to such case.
D. When the date of abatement has been determined, the Commission, by
resolution, shall establish such date and shall set forth such facts as bear upon the case upon
which the determination of such date of abatement is based, and shall formally notify the owner
of such nonconforming property of the action of the Commission by mailing to such owner a
copy of the formally adopted resolution not later than ten days following the date of subject
action by the Planning Commission.
E. Any action by the Planning Commission under this section shall be subject to
appeal to the City Council in the same manner as provided for other appeals from decisions of
the Planning Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 3311)
Section 18. 72. 120 Conditions for New Conforming Uses
No new conforming use of land or buildings shall be instituted or maintained unless any
nonconforming use of such land or buildings is first abandoned and all nonconforming buildings
or facilities are first removed, unless otherwise specifically authorized by action of the approving
body considering the continuance at a duly noticed public hearing.
Prior Code Appendix A 3312)
Section 18. 72. 130 Exemptions from Provisions - Public Utility Buildings
A. The provisions of this chapter concerning the required removal of nonconforming
buildings partially destroyed shall not apply to utility buildings and structures when such
buildings and structures pertain directly to the rendering of the service of distribution, such as
power generating plants and electrical substations, water wells and pumps, gas storage,
metering and valve control stations.
B. Nothing in this section shall be construed or applied so as to prevent the
expansion, increase in capacity, modernization or replacement of such public utility buildings,
structures, equipment and features as are used directly for the delivery, or distribution, of the
service; provided, however, that all yard requirements of the zoning district in which the site is
located shall be maintained and there shall be no enlargement of the site.
C. The provisions of this section shall not exempt from the provisions covering
nonconformity of buildings, structures, or uses which do not immediately relate to the direct
service to consumers such as warehouses, storage yards, and the like.
Prior Code Appendix A 3313)
18. 72 (7) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 72. 140 Non- Permitted Single- Family and Accessory Buildings
Structures, which existed prior to the City' s incorporation, January 28, 1963, shall be
permitted to retain their use and location if all of the following conditions are met:
A. The structure is an addition to a legal single- family use or accessory to a legal
single- family use on the same lot.
B. All portions of the structure are within the property lines.
C. No portion of the structure is located within an easement without written
permission from the easement holder.
D. The owner shall provide documentation of the structure' s existence prior to the
City' s incorporation, such as County Assessor records, to be verified by the Building Official.
E. The owner shall obtain a building permit for the structures, meeting the current
Code in effect at the time of the permit application.
F. The owner shall complete the inspection process and obtain a final clearance
within the timeframes allowed by the Building Code. If the property owner does not obtain an
approved final building permit for the structure within the timeframes allowed by the Building
Code, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn and the structure shall remain unlawful.
Ord. No. 2008- 20, Added, 6/ 10/ 08)
18. 72 (8) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 74
Variance and Special Use Permits
Sections:
18. 74.010 Purpose and Intent of Provisions
18. 74.020 Variance - Permitted When
18. 74.030 Variance - Required Findings
18. 74.040 Variance - Application
18. 74.050 Variance - Notice of Hearing
18. 74.060 Variance - Date of Hearing
18. 74.070 Variance - Decision by Zoning Administrator
18. 74.080 Effective Date of the Variance, Repealed
18. 74.090 Variance-Appeal from Zoning Administrator Decision
18. 74. 100 Board of Appeals Hearing on Appeals, Repealed
18. 74. 110 Decision of Board of Appeals Shall be Final, Repealed
18. 74. 120 Special Use Permit - Permitted When
18. 74. 130 Special Use Permit - Application
18. 74. 140 Special Use Permit - Notice of Hearing
18. 74. 150 Special Use Permit - Date of Hearing
18. 74. 160 Special Use Permit - Decision by Planning Commission
18. 74. 170 Notice of Decision of Commission, Repealed
18. 74. 180 Special Use Permit - Appeal from Planning Commission Decision
18. 74. 190 Effective Date of Order Granting or Denying Special Use Permit; Time for
Appeal, Repealed
18. 74.200 Transmission of Commission' s Record to City Council, Repealed
18. 74.210 City Council to Hold Public Hearing on Appeal, Repealed
18. 74.220 Decision of the City Council Shall be Final, Repealed
18. 74.230 Notice of Decision of City Council, Repealed
18. 74.240 General Provisions
18. 74.250 Zoning Administrator - Office Established - Authority
18. 74.260 Zoning Administrator - Powers and Duties
18. 74.270 Zoning Administrator - Actions Authorized Without Public Hearing,
Repealed
18. 74.280 Suspension and Revocation of Use Permits
Section 18. 74.010 Purpose and Intent of Provisions
A. Purpose. The sole purpose of any variance shall be to permit parity in land use,
and no variance shall be granted that would have the effect of granting a special privilege to a
property not shared by other properties in the same vicinity and zoning district. The purpose of a
special use permit is to provide a means whereby certain specified facilities and activities may
be permitted at a given location when it is determined that a facility or activity is necessary or
desirable and will contribute to the general convenience or welfare of the neighborhood or
community.
B. Intent. The variance process is intended to provide relief to property when
practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships or results inconsistent with the general purposes of
this title result from the strict literal interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this title.
The special use permit is intended to ensure that facilities and activities subject to such are
made compatible with the neighborhood or community in which they propose to locate, will
provide a necessary or desirable service or facility, and will not create undue disturbance or
18. 74 ( l) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
hazards to the health, safety or general welfare of the residents, and is not injurious to property
or improvements in the vicinity.
Prior Code Appendix A 2200)
Section 18. 74.020 Variance - Permitted When
A variance may be granted to permit the following:
A. Reduction or variance in setback regulations, parking and/ or loading regulations,
front, side and rear yard regulations, height regulations, commercial screening wall requirements,
and the expansion, extension or alteration of nonconforming facilities and activities; provided
that adjustments of ten percent variation or less may be granted in accordance with Section
18. 74. 260.
B. A change in the required location of accessory facilities and activities, and the
building site front.
C. Repealed
D. The modification of provisions regulating signs and sign structures
E. To allow the issuance of building or grading permits on parcels of land having
access of less than a 20- foot width on a public street as required by Section 18. 02. 385 to qualify
as a legal lot and building site, as set forth in this subsection:
1. Evidence. In addition to any other findings which must be made in order
to grant a variance, the following findings must be made to grant a variance for a reduction in the
width of any required access strip:
a. That the parcel has legally recorded access to a public street
either directly or by way of an access strip of at least ten feet in width, which is topographically
traversable by vehicular traffic.
b. That it would be a hardship to require other access to the parcel or
to widen any existing access strip.
C. That sufficient horizontal and vertical clearance exists to permit
emergency vehicles with dimensions of 13 feet 6 inches in height, 9 feet in width, and 36 feet in
length to gain access to and egress from the parcel,
d. That the access strip was not established after January 21, 1976.
2. Conditions. The following shall be imposed as conditions of such a
variance:
a. A certificate of compliance as provided for in the subdivision
ordinance shall be filed with the County Recorder with respect to the parcel.
b. If the parcel is in a zone district other than the E- 1, A- 1, R- 1 or R-
1- B zones, a site development plan must be filed with the application for a variance pursuant to
Chapter 18. 64, and a granting of the variance shall be conditioned upon development in
substantial conformance with an approved site development plan.
C. Any other condition which is reasonably necessary or appropriate
to ensure that the required findings for the variances are fulfilled.
Prior Code Appendix A 2201; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91; Ord. No. 93- 22, Section C, Repealed,
09/ 28/ 93)
Section 18. 74.030 Variance - Required Findings
Variances shall not be granted unless it is found:
A. That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property involved or to the intended use of the property that do not apply
generally to the property or class of use in the same vicinity and zoning district.
B. That such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same vicinity and zone and denied
to the property for which the variance is sought.
18. 74 ( 2) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
C. That because of the special, exceptional, or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions to be applied, the variance will not constitute a special privilege inconsistent with
limitations on other similarly zoned property in the vicinity and zone.
D. That the granting of such variance will not adversely affect any general or
specific plan adopted pursuant to law.
Prior Code Appendix A 2202)
Section 18. 74.040 Variance - Application
An application for a variance may be made by a property owner, lessee or a person
authorized to exercise the power of eminent domain. The application shall set forth fully the
grounds for and the facts necessary to support the required findings for granting a variance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2203)
Section 18. 74.050 Variance - Notice of Hearing
Upon the receipt of a complete application or upon the adoption of an order by the
Planning Commission or City Council, the Zoning Administrator shall give public notice of the
intention to consider the granting of a variance at a public hearing as provided in Chapter 18. 04.
Prior Code Appendix A 2204)
Section 18. 74.060 Variance - Date of Hearing
The hearing on an application for a variance shall be held by the Zoning Administrator not
later than 50 days following the finding that the application for such variance, or the adoption of
the order by the Planning Commission or the City Council, is complete.
Prior Code Appendix A 2205)
Section 18. 74.070 Variance - Decision by Zoning Administrator
No more than 20 days following the hearing on an application for a variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall grant or deny the variance or grant the variance subject to specified
conditions. A notice of the Zoning Administrator' s decision on an application for a variance shall
be filed in the office of the Director of Planning and a copy of such notice shall be mailed to the
applicant at the address shown on the application and furnished to each member of the City
Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2206)
Section 18.74.080 Effective Date of the Variance
Prior Code Appendix A 2207; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.090 Variance-Appeal from Zoning Administrator Decision
Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be filed pursuant to Section
18. 04. 150.
Prior Code Appendix A 2208; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74. 100 Board of Appeals Hearing on Appeals
Prior Code Appendix A 2209; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74. 110 Decision of Board of Appeals Shall be Final
Prior Code Appendix A 2210; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
18. 74 ( 3) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 74. 120 Special Use Permit - Permitted When
A. All applications for special use permits shall be made, considered and
granted or denied under the procedure as set forth in this chapter. Special use permits
may be granted only when it is shown by the evidence received at the hearing before
the Planning Commission, or after an appeal before the City Council, that all of the
following facts exist or determinations can be made:
1. The proposed use is consistent with the general plan and any
applicable specific plan;
2. The proposed use, in the manner to be conducted, is permitted in
the applicable zone and will conform to applicable federal, state, and local laws or
regulations;
3. The site for the proposed use has a size that is sufficient to
reasonably accommodate the planned activities and will be served by existing
infrastructure and utilities sufficient to serve the neighborhood, inclusive of the proposed
use, or has been conditioned to install such infrastructure and utilities;
4. The design, location, size, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use will be compatible with the existing and planned land uses in the vicinity;
5. The proposed use, at its location, will provide the neighborhood
and/ or city with a service or facility that will contribute to its general welfare; and
6. The proposed use, and its operation, will not be unduly detrimental to: ( i)
the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity; ( ii) property or
improvements in the vicinity; or ( iii) the fiscal or economic interests of the City of Vista.
B. In determining whether or not the above conditions exist, the Planning
Commission, or after an appeal, the City Council, but not limited to shall consider the following
factors:
1. Possible damage or nuisance from noise, glare, smoke, odor, fumes, dust
or vibration.
2. Possible hazard ( with a potential greater than normal or which exceeds
the capabilities of local public safety units) to persons or property from explosion, contamination
or fire.
3. Possible hazard or inconvenience occasioned by unusual volume or
character of traffic.
Prior Code Appendix A 2225; Ord. No. 94- 14, Amended, 05/ 24/94; Ord. No. 2014- 6, Amended,
03/ 11/ 14)
Section 18. 74. 130 Special Use Permit - Application
An application for a special use permit may be made by a property owner, lessee or a
person authorized to exercise the power of eminent domain. The application shall set forth fully
the grounds for and the facts necessary to support the required showings for granting a special
use permit.
Prior Code Appendix A 2226)
Section 18. 74. 140 Special Use Permit - Notice of Hearing
Upon receipt of a complete application or upon the adoption of an order by the Planning
Commission or City Council, the Secretary of the Planning Commission shall give public notice of
the intention of the Planning Commission to consider the granting of a special use permit at a
public hearing as provided in Chapter 18. 04.
Prior Code Appendix A 2227)
18. 74 ( 4) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 74. 150 Special Use Permit - Date of Hearing
The hearing on an application for a special use permit shall be held by the Planning
Commission not later than 50 days following the finding that the application for such special use
permit, or the adoption of the order by the Planning Commission or the Council, is complete.
Prior Code Appendix A 2228)
Section 18. 74. 160 Special Use Permit - Decision by Planning Commission
No more than 40 days following its hearing on the application for a special use permit, the
Planning Commission shall grant or deny the special use permit or grant the special use permit
subject to specified conditions. Such action shall be by resolution.
Prior Code Appendix A 2229)
Section 18. 74. 170 Notice of Decision of Commission
Prior Code Appendix A 2230; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74. 180 Special Use Permit - Appeal from Planning Commission Decision
Appeals from the decision of the Planning Commission shall be filed pursuant to Section
18. 04. 150.
Prior Code Appendix A 2231; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74. 190 Effective Date of Order Granting or Denying Special Use Permit; Time
for Appeal
Prior Code Appendix A 2232; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.200 Transmission of Commission' s Record to City Council
Prior Code Appendix A 2233; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.210 City Council to Hold Public Hearing on Appeal
Prior Code Appendix A 2234; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.220 Decision of the City Council Shall be Final
Prior Code Appendix A 2235; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.230 Notice of Decision of City Council
Prior Code Appendix A 2236; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.240 General Provisions
A. Application for Variance or Special Use Permit. An application for a variance or
special use permit as provided for in this chapter shall be in the form prescribed by the Director of
Planning and shall be accompanied by:
1. Complete plans and description of the property involved and the
proposed facility or activity.
2. Evidence, satisfactory to the Director of Planning or Zoning Administrator,
of the ability and intention of the applicant to proceed with actual construction of the facility or
18. 74 ( 5) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
implementation of the activity in accordance with such application within six months after the
approval of the variance or special use permit.
B. Conditions and Limitations. Variance and special use permits may be granted
subject to such conditions and limitations as the Zoning Administrator, board of appeals,
Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable, shall deem to be reasonable and
necessary or advisable under the circumstances so that the purpose and intent of this title shall
be achieved.
C. Guarantees May be Required to Ensure Performance of Conditions and
Limitations. Whenever a variance or special use permit is granted by the Zoning Administrator,
board of appeals, Planning Commission or the City Council, whichever is applicable, upon any
condition or limitation or for a limited period of time, such administrator, board, commission or
council may require the person seeking the variance or special use permit to furnish security in
the form of money or instrument of credit in an amount fixed by such administrator, board,
commission or council to ensure compliance with the conditions and limitation of time, upon which
the variance or special use permit is granted, the guarantee furnished as security shall be
forfeited to the City and such money or the money collected on any such guarantee shall be paid
into the general fund of the City.
D. Discontinuance. Each variance or special use permit heretofore or hereafter
issued shall expire and become null and void at the expiration of one year after the activity for
which it was issued shall have been discontinued.
E. Nuisances. Neither the provisions of this chapter nor the granting of any permit
provided for in this chapter authorizes or legalizes the maintenance of any public or private
nuisance.
F. Extension of Time. The time limits within which the Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, board of appeals or City Council, whichever is applicable, shall act on an
application for variance or special use permit may be extended by the body having final
jurisdiction.
G. Reapplication. No reapplication for a variance or special use permit which has
been denied shall be filed earlier than three months after the date of such denial unless specific
authority to do so has been granted by the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, board of
appeals or the City Council. The provisions of this section, however, will not prevent earlier
reapplication if denial of an application is made without prejudice.
H. Expiration. Each valid unrevoked special use permit and unexpired variance shall
expire and become null and void at the time specified in such permit or variance, or if no time is
specified, at the expiration of one year after issuance, except where construction and/ or activity
has commenced in reliance on such permit or variance prior to its expiration; provided, however,
upon application of the owner, such one-year period within which such construction or activity
must be commenced may be extended for one-year periods, not to exceed two such
extensions, beyond the original expiration date by the Director of Planning without notice or
hearing. In the event the Director of Planning denies the owner's application for extension, the
owner may appeal to the board of appeals or the City Council, whichever is appropriate.
I. Assignment. A special use permit or variance is not personal to the owner of the
land at the time of granting such special use permit. A special use permit runs with the land and
is available to any subsequent owner until it expires in accordance with its terms or is effectively
revoked.
J. Filing Fee. A filing fee established by resolution of the City Council shall be paid
to the City upon the filing of each application for a variance or special use permit, as provided
for in this title, for the purpose of defraying the expense of investigation, postage, posting,
advertising and other costs incidental to the proceedings prescribed in this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix A 2239)
18. 74 ( 6) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 74.250 Zoning Administrator - Office Established - Authority
A. The Office of the Zoning Administrator is created in order to relieve the Planning
Commission and City Council of certain routine functions necessary to the proper administration
of this chapter.
B. The Zoning Administrator shall be the Director of Planning or his authorized
agent, with such authority as is granted to him by this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 2240)
Section 18. 74.260 Zoning Administrator - Powers and Duties
A. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to consider and to approve, disapprove or
modify applications and/ or issue the following required permits without setting the matter for a
public hearing on the following subjects:
1. Minor Use Permit. The Zoning Administrator may be empowered by the
office of the Director of Planning to issue minor use permits, as defined in Sections 18. 66.010
through 18. 66.040, according to the regulations of such sections.
2. Adjustment Process.
a. There is hereby created an adjustment process to be used to
grant modifications from the zoning ordinance which are at ten percent modification or less.
These may be granted by the Zoning Administrator. The only written finding necessary for an
adjustment is that the adjustment does not significantly adversely impact any neighboring
properties, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator.
b. Adjustments may be granted for the following:
1. A reduction in front side or rear setback regulations.
2. Reduction in parking or loading regulations.
3. Reduction or increase in the height of wall or fence
requirements.
C. Said adjustments shall be granted, noticed and heard in the
following manner: All noticing shall be the same as for a site development plan, in that all property
owners within 300 feet of the site will be notified. At the end of the review period, the Zoning
Administrator may grant or deny the adjustment, without further hearing. He may also set a
hearing before the Planning Commission if he believes there is sufficient reason, including protest
from neighbors. Any decision of the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission may be
appealed pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
3. Fees. A fee in the amount established by resolution of the City Council
shall accompany each application for a use permit or variance considered by the Zoning
Administrator without a public hearing.
4. Application. An application for a minor use permit or variance under the
provisions of this section shall include or be accompanied by a written consent to the granting of
the permit or variance signed by the owner or owners of each lot or parcel adjoining the site
subject to the permit or variance and the owner or owners of land across any street from such
site.
5. Hearings. In the event of appeal, the Zoning Administrator shall set the
matter for public hearing as provided by regular variance procedures of this title.
B. Repealed.
C. Satellite Antenna Permit. The Zoning Administrator/ Director of Planning is
authorized to consider and approve, approve subject to specified conditions, or deny
applications for a satellite antenna permit in accordance with the provisions hereof. In granting
such a permit, he may impose such conditions as deemed necessary or desirable to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
18. 74 ( 7) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Application for a satellite antenna permit may be made by the owner or
leaseholder of the subject property and shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The
application shall state fully the circumstances and conditions relied upon as grounds for the
application and shall be accompanied by adequate plans, including landscaping plans, a legal
description of the subject property and a copy of the lease agreement where a leaseholder is
the applicant. Whenever another discretionary permit is required for construction of a proposed
project, the satellite antenna permit may be combined with such discretionary permit.
2. An advertised public hearing shall not be required in the case of an
application for a satellite antenna permit. The Zoning Administrator shall set a reasonable time for
consideration of an application for a satellite antenna permit and give notice thereof to the
applicant and may give notice thereof to other interested persons. Upon the date set for
consideration of the matter, he shall hear the application unless cause is found to continue the
matter. If a date and time for continued consideration is announced at the hearing, no further
notice need be given.
3. The Zoning Administrator may grant a satellite antenna permit when it
appears from the facts contained in the application, from information obtained by the Zoning
Administrator, and from any evidence presented, that the proposal is in conformance with the
standards set forth in Section 18. 58.500, or he may deny such permit application if it is found not
to be in conformance with such section. He shall render his decision upon completion of the
investigation of the facts as set forth in the application and the review of the circumstances of
the particular case. The decision shall be in writing and shall include findings that the application
is in conformance with, or fails to comply with, the provisions of Section 18. 58. 500. The decision
shall be filed in the office of the Director of Planning and a copy shall be mailed to the applicant
and any interested party of record.
4. Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be made
pursuant to section 18. 04. 150.
5. The satellite antenna permit shall become null and void 30 days after the
effective date of such permit unless construction and/ or installation has commenced upon
reliance of the permit prior to such date. The Zoning Administrator may grant an extension of 30
days for justifiable cause; however, in no case shall an extension for a satellite antenna permit
exceed 60 days.
Prior Code Appendix A 2241; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed & Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.270 Zoning Administrator - Actions Authorized Without Public Hearing
Prior Code Appendix A 2242; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 74.280 Suspension and Revocation of Use Permits
A. Unless otherwise specified in the special use permit itself, each special use
permit shall be null and void if no construction or use in reliance on the permit is started by 11: 59
p. m. on the first anniversary date of the adoption of the resolution approving the permit by the
Planning Commission or, on appeal, by the Council.
B. The Planning Commission shall, at a public hearing noticed in the same manner
as any hearing required for the granting of a permit, consider appropriate action including
suspension, revocation or modification of any special use permit if it finds that any of the
following conditions exist:
1. The operation as conducted by the permittee, manager or any employee
or agent of the permittee or manager does not comply with all applicable laws, including, but not
limited to, the following:
a. The City' s building ordinances as set forth in this code
b. The City' s fire ordinances as set forth in this code
18. 74 ( 8) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The City' s health ordinances as set forth in this code
d. The City' s zoning ordinances as set forth in this code
e. The creation of a public or private nuisance or hazardous
condition such as undue or excessive vehicular traffic hazards to the general public.
f. Other factors that may be detrimental to the public health, safety
or welfare.
g. Any intensification of use
h. Any violation of the terms or conditions of the use permit itself.
2. The permittee or manager knowingly made any false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of fact in the application for a permit.
C. The requirements of this section shall be cumulative with those of Section
18. 40. 140 for those uses governed by Section 18. 40. 140.
Prior Code Appendix A 2243)
18. 74 ( 9) Vista 4/ 11/ 14)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 75
Requirements for Processing Special Use Permits for Hazardous Waste Facilities
Sections:
18. 75.010 Applicability
18. 75.020 Definitions
18. 75.030 Notice of Intent to Apply
18. 75.040 Public Meeting
18. 75.050 Local Assessment Committee
18. 75.060 Notice of Permit Application
18. 75.070 Negotiation Process
18. 75.080 Consultant and Mediator Fees
18. 75.090 Initial Consulting Determination
18. 75. 100 Hearing Process
18. 75. 110 Appeal of City Council Decision
Section 18. 75.010 Applicability
A special use permit shall be required for any hazardous waste facility as defined herein.
It is the intent of this chapter to supplement Chapter 18. 74 of this code for the processing of this
special use permit.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.020 Definitions
The following definitions are applicable to this chapter. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the following definitions govern the construction of this chapter.
A. " Hazardous waste" shall mean a waste, or combination of wastes, which
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may
either:
1. Cause or significantly contribute to an increase to mortality of an increase
in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness.
2. Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise
managed.
Unless expressly provided otherwise, the term " hazardous waste" shall be understood to
also include extremely hazardous waste.
B. " Hazardous waste facility" shall mean any structure, other appurtenances, and
improvements on the land, and all contiguous land, used for the treatment, transfer, storage,
resource recovery, disposal, or recycling of hazardous waste.
C. " Hazardous waste facility project" shall mean a project undertaken for the
purpose of siting and constructing a new hazardous waste facility or for the purpose of
significantly expanding or modifying an existing hazardous waste facility that is being used or
operated under a permit issued pursuant to Section 25200 of the California Health and Safety
Code or a grant of interim status pursuant to Section 25200. 5 of that code. Unless expressly
provided otherwise, " hazardous waste facility project" include a specified hazardous waste
facility project.
D. " Land use decision" shall mean a discretionary decision of a local agency
concerning a hazardous waste facility project, including the issuance of a land use permit or
18. 75 ( l) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
special use permit, the granting of a variance, the subdivision of property, and the modification
of existing property lines pursuant to Title 7 ( commencing with Section 65000) of the California
Government Code.
E. " Significantly expand or modify" shall mean to expand or modify an existing
hazardous waste facility, including a specified hazardous waste facility, in a manner so that a
land use decision and an environmental impact report are required.
F. " Specified hazardous waste facility" shall mean an off-site facility which
serves more than one producer of hazardous waste.
G. " Specified hazardous waste facility project" shall mean a project undertaken
for the purpose of siting and constructing a new specified hazardous waste facility or for the
purpose of significantly expanding or modifying an existing specified hazardous waste facility
that is being used or operated under a permit issued pursuant to section 25200 of the California
Health and Safety Code or a grant of interim status pursuant to Section 25200. 5 of that code.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.030 Notice of Intent to Apply
A. At least 90 days before filing an application for a special use permit, the applicant
shall file with the Planning Division and with the Office of Permit Assistance in the State Office
of Planning and Research a notice of intent to make the application.
B. The notice of intent shall contain a complete description of the nature, function,
and scope of the project.
C. The Planning Division shall provide public notice of the applicant' s intent to apply
for a special use permit, pursuant to the noticing procedure in Chapter 18. 04 and by posting
notices in the location where the proposed project is located. The notice shall include the date,
time, and place of the public meeting described in Section 18. 75. 040.
D. The applicant may not file an application for a special use permit unless the
applicant has first complied with Item A above.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.040 Public Meeting
Within 90 days after a notice of intent to file an application for a special use permit is
filed with the Planning Division and with the Office of Permit Assistance in the State Office of
Planning and Research, the Office of Permit Assistance will, in cooperation with the Planning
Division, convene a public meeting in the City of Vista to inform the public on the nature,
function, and scope of the proposed project and the procedures that are required for approving
applications for the project.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.050 Local Assessment Committee
A. Within 90 days after a notice of intent to file an application for a special use
permit is filed with the Planning Division and with the Office of Permit Assistance in the State
Office of Planning and Research, the City Council shall appoint a seven member local
assessment committee.
B. The membership of the local assessment committee shall be broadly constituted
to reflect the makeup of the City and shall include three representatives of the City at- large, two
representatives of environmental or public interest groups and two representatives of affected
businesses and industries. Members of the committee shall have no direct financial interest, as
defined in Section 87103 of the California Government Code, in the proposed project.
18. 75 ( 2) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The local assessment committee shall, within the time period prescribed by the
City Council, do all of the following:
1. Adopt rules and procedures which are necessary to perform its duties.
2. Represent generally, in negotiations with the project applicant, the
interest of the residents of the City of Vista and the interest of adjacent communities.
3. Negotiate with the project applicant on the detailed terms, provisions, and
conditions for project approval which would protect the public health, safety, and welfare and the
welfare of the City of Vista through special benefits and compensation.
4. Receive and expend, subject to the approval of the City Manager and
authorization of the City Council, the technical assistance grants made available by the Office of
Permit Assistance in the State Office of Planning and Research to enable the local assessment
committee to hire an independent consultant to assist the committee in reviewing the project
and negotiating terms, provisions, and conditions with the applicant.
5. Advise the Planning Division, Planning Commission, and City Council of
the terms, provisions, and conditions for project approval which have been agreed upon by the
committee and the applicant, and of any additional information which the committee deems
appropriate. The Planning Division, Planning Commission, and City Council may use this advice
for their independent consideration of the project.
D. The City Council shall provide staff resources to assist the Local Assessment
Committee in performing its duties.
E. The Local Assessment Committee shall cease to exist after final administrative
action by state and local agencies has been taken on the permit applications for the project for
which the committee was convened.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.060 Notice of Permit Application
A. The Planning division shall notify the Office of Permit Assistance in the State
Office of Planning and Research within ten days after an application for a special use permit is
accepted as complete by the Planning Division.
B. Within 60 days after receiving this notice, the Office of Permit Assistance in the
State Office of Planning and Research will convene a meeting in the City of Vista of the lead
agency and responsible agencies for the project, the applicant, the Local Assessment
Committee, and the interested public, for the purpose of determining the issues which concern
the agencies that are required to approve the project and the issues which concern the public.
The Planning Division shall provide notice to the public of the date, time, and place of the
meeting.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18.75.070 Negotiation Process
A. Following the meeting required by Section 18. 75. 060, the local assessment
committee and the applicant shall meet and confer on the project proposal for the purpose of
establishing the terms, provisions, and conditions under which the project would be acceptable
to the community.
B. If the local assessment committee and the applicant cannot resolve any
differences through the meetings, the Office of Permit assistance in the State Office of Planning
and Research may recommend the use of a mediator.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
18. 75 ( 3) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 75.080 Consultant and Mediator Fees
A. Pursuant to Section 25199. 7( g) of the California Health and Safety Code, the
applicant shall pay a fee, established by the Office of Permit Assistance in the State Office of
Planning and Research, equal to the cost of hiring independent consultants to review the
project. The Office of Permit Assistance in the State Office of Planning and Research may use
this money to make technical assistance grants to the local assessment committee to enable
the committee to hire an independent consultant to assist the committee in reviewing the project
and negotiating terms, provisions, and conditions with the applicant.
B. Pursuant to Section 25199. 7( h) of the California Health and Safety Code, the
applicant shall pay one- half of the costs of any mediation process which may be recommended
by the Office of Permit Assistance in the State Office of Planning and Research. The remaining
costs will be paid, upon appropriation by the legislature, from the State General Fund.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75.090 Initial Consulting Determination
A. At the request of the applicant, the Planning Commission shall, within 60 days
after the Planning Division has determined that an application for a special use permit is
complete and after a noticed public hearing, issue an initial written determination on whether the
proposed project is consistent with the following:
1. The General Plan and zoning ordinances in effect at the time the
application was received including the Hazardous Waste Element of the General Plan.
2. The County Hazardous Waste Management Plan authorized by Article
3. 5 ( commencing with Section 23135) of the California Health and Safety Code.
B. The Planning Division shall send to the applicant a copy of the written
determination made pursuant to item " A" above.
C. The determination required by item " A" above does not prohibit the City from
making a different determination when the final decision to approve or deny the special use
permit is made, if the final determination is based on information that was not considered at the
time the initial determination was made.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18.75. 100 Hearing Process
A. The Planning Commission shall hold a noticed public hearing to consider the
special Use. Permit. The Planning Commission' s decision shall be advisory to the City Council.
B. The City Council shall hold a noticed public hearing on the special use permit.
The decision of the City Council shall be final unless appealed as set forth in Section 18. 75. 110.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
Section 18. 75. 110 Appeal of City Council Decision
The decision of the City Council regarding the approval, conditions of approval, or denial
of a special use permit shall be final unless appealed by the applicant or an interested person to
the Governor of the State of California, or the Governor's designee, pursuant to Article 8. 7
commencing with Section 25199) to Chapter 6. 5 of Division 20 of the California Health and
Safety Code within 30 days after the date the City Council approves or denies the special use
permit.
Ord. No. 92- 8, Enacted, 05/ 26/ 92)
18. 75 ( 4) Vista 7/ 18/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 76
Temporary Use Permits
Sections:
18. 76.010 Temporary Use Permits - Zoning Administrator
18. 76.020 Administrative Temporary Use Permits
18. 76.030 Conflict with Chapter 12. 12 Provisions
Section 18.76.010 Temporary Use Permits - Zoning Administrator
A. Permitted Uses. Temporary use permits may be issued for the following uses on
any privately owned property zoned C- 1, 2 or 3; M- 1 or properties designated for commercial or
industrial uses within specific plans provided that the operations permitted therein shall be for no
more than ten days:
1. Carnivals, circuses or fairs
2. Rodeos with no permanent structures involved
3. Fireworks shows
4. Other temporary uses of a similar nature to those in Subdivisions 1
through 3 of this subsection.
B. Application Procedures. Applications for a temporary use permit shall be made
to the Office of the Zoning Administrator at least 45 days prior to the first date of the proposed
activity in a form prescribed by the Community Development Director and shall be accompanied
by:
1. A map showing the area on which the event will be held.
2. A description of the event for which the Temporary Use Permit is
requested.
3. The name( s) of the organization( s) and principals within the organization
applying for the temporary use permit.
4. An estimate of the number of persons who will attend, all vendors who
are anticipated to operate at the event, and a description of all security personnel and
arrangements that are scheduled for the event.
5. A description of parking arrangements for the event.
6. Such additional information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator to determine whether the event will be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood, satisfy applicable laws, and be consistent with the public, health, safety and
welfare.
C. Expiration. Each valid temporary use permit, unless earlier revoked, shall expire
and become null and void at the time specified in such permit.
D. Notice and Hearing.
1. Within 45 days of the date of a submittal of a complete application for a
temporary use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall hold a public hearing on the application.
Notice of the public hearing shall be given pursuant to Section 18. 04.060B.
2. A temporary use permit shall be issued, unless the Zoning Administrator
makes one or more of the following findings:
a. That the proposed activity at the particular location will not
contribute to the general convenience or welfare of the neighborhood or the community.
b. That the characteristics of the proposed activity are incompatible
with those permitted in the surrounding areas, or that such proposed activity is not in harmony
with the various elements and objectives of the General Plan.
18. 76 ( l) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
C. The proposed activity, under the circumstances of the particular
case, will be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the persons residing in the vicinity,
or will be in conflict with applicable law.
3. Any approved permit may include conditions or requirements that the
Zoning Administrator determines are reasonably required in order to make one or more of the
findings set forth in Subsection 2 above. In addition, the Zoning Administrator may require that
insurance and indemnification be provided for the benefit of the City and/ or the public when the
Zoning Administrator determines that there is a risk of damage, injury or lawsuit in connection
with the special event.
E. Appeal. Appeals from the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be made
pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code Appendix A 2250; Ord. No. 2003- 11, Amended, 04/ 22/2003; Ord. No. 2014-4, Amended,
02/ 11/ 2014; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 01/ 14/ 2020)
Section 18.76.020 Administrative Temporary Use Permits
A. Purpose. The purpose of an administrative temporary use permit is to provide for
the administrative review and approval or denial of certain temporary use permits or activities or
land uses that are temporary in nature, and are not of such an impact that public hearings and
consideration by the Planning Commission or the City Council are warranted.
B. Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
1. Administrative temporary use permit" means a permit granted to
authorize the conduct of temporary or promotional activities or land uses in accordance with the
provisions of this section and other applicable zoning regulations of this code.
2. Sidewalk sale" means any temporary or promotional sale or offer for
sale of goods or services which takes place on a private way, private parking lot, or other private
property; such sale or offer for sale of goods or services is not conducted within an enclosed
building in accordance with the applicable zoning district regulations.
Exception: Any sale or offer for sale of goods or services which is permitted
outside an enclosed building on a permanent basis by provisions of the applicable zoning
district regulations is excepted.
3. Temporary use" means any activity or land use on private property of a
duration of five days or less that is not specifically regulated or provided for by the applicable
zoning district regulations.
C. Applicability of provisions.
1. The conduct of any sidewalk sale, as defined in this section, within the
city shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
2. Other temporary or promotional activities of a duration of less than five
days, as may be designated by the Zoning Administrator from time to time as those subject to
the provisions of this section.
3. Sidewalk sales, promotional activities and other temporary activities or
land uses that are to exceed a duration of five days, plus those uses listed in Section
18. 76.010.A, shall be subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the
provisions of Section 18. 76. 010.
D. Approval Conditions. Each applicant, or group when more than one is involved,
must comply with the conditions as set forth in this subsection prior to or upon approval and
granting of an administrative temporary use permit:
1. Each permit application must be signed by not less than three merchants
with offices or stores in a commercial complex or a single large business with a gross sales floor
area in excess of 20,000 square feet.
18. 76 ( 2) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Sidewalk sales shall be limited to four such events during any one
calendar year for any business or group of merchants.
Exception: Any merchant or group of merchants may participate in
additional events, provided the sale is a group activity conducted by a minimum of ten
businesses or is sponsored or conducted by the Chamber of Commerce or other recognized
merchants' organization.
3. Any sidewalk sale conducted on property other than that owned or
leased by the applicant(s) must have written permission of the property owner or his authorized
agent.
4. By accepting such a permit, the permit seeker agrees to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, employees and agents from any and all
liability arising out of the actions permitted by such temporary use permit, and the permit seeker
agrees to pay on behalf of the City all claims, damages, judgments, legal and court costs,
adjuster fees and attorney fees related thereto.
5. The permit seeker agrees to provide to the City a certificate of liability
insurance naming the City as additionally insured, and which includes coverage for the effective
dates of such temporary use permit, and with a minimum limit of liability set by the City pursuant
to the City' s policy and/ or practice.
6. The permit seeker shall ensure that pedestrian access is not impeded or
obstructed in any manner that would create a hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
7. The permit seeker shall ensure that such sale does not impede or
obstruct vehicular traffic in any manner, including fire lanes for emergency vehicles.
8. The permit seeker shall ensure that such sale activities do not impede or
obstruct access to any business, its parking or other use not participating in the sale.
E. Application. An application for an administrative temporary use permit shall be
made to the Zoning Administrator/City Planner on such forms as he/she may prescribe. Such
application shall include, as a minimum:
1. A formal letter from the applicant(s) indicating who is participating in such
sale and the dates when the sale is to be conducted, duly signed by the business owner(s) or
his/their authorized agent(s).
2. A plot plan indicating thereon the sale area in relation to any public or
private street and/ or parking area.
3. A certificate of liability insurance as required by Subsection D. 5
4. Any commercial activity participating in such sidewalk sale which is not
currently licensed by the City shall submit a business license application concurrently with the
temporary use permit application;
5. Such other information as the Zoning Administrator/City Planner may
deem reasonably necessary.
F. Fees. A nonrefundable processing fee shall be paid prior to the acceptance of
any application for an administrative temporary use permit. Such fee shall be established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a civic
organization may request a waiver of application fees for processing an administrative
temporary use permit by submitting that request in writing to the City Manager concurrently with
the application for the temporary use, or at such other time as is allowed by the City Manager,
which must be before the issuance of the administrative temporary use permit. The waiver shall
be granted when the City Manager determines that the proposed event will promote the
interests of the City of Vista through facilitating or providing charitable contributions, services or
other enhancements for the City or its residents. The City Manager' s decision is subject to
reconsideration by the City Manager if the applicant provides a written request to the City
Manager (within five working days of the issuance of the City Manager's written decision) that
18. 76 ( 3) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
sets forth any legal or other basis for the requested reconsideration. No other administrative
appeal or review shall be available. The decisions of the City Manager shall be made
exclusively based on the benefits that will accrue to the City and shall be administered in a
manner that is consistent with all applicable Constitutional and legal standards. For purposes of
this section the term " civic organization" includes any nonprofit corporation or other similar
group dedicated to promoting civic, charitable, or other public interests.
G. Violation and Penalty. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall
constitute a violation of the zoning ordinance and subject to enforcement and penalty as is
established by Chapter 18. 82.
H. Administrative Temporary Use Permit.
1. All administrative temporary use permits shall be approved, denied or
conditionally approved by the Zoning Administrator without notice or hearing within five working
days of the filing of a complete application.
2. An appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be filed
pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
Prior Code Appendix A 2260; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91; Ord. No. 2003- 11, Amended,
04/ 22/2003; Ord. No. 2020- 1, Amended, 1/ 14/ 20)
Section 18. 76.030 Conflict with Chapter 12. 12 Provisions
A. It is the intent of this chapter that no conflict exists between this chapter and
Chapter 12. 12 of this code, as this chapter does not regulate events on public property;
however, if a conflict arises between this chapter and Chapter 12. 12, or a use would be subject
to both this chapter and Chapter 12. 12, Chapter 12. 12 shall take precedence.
B. Notwithstanding the above, if the Director of Recreation and Community Services
determines that any large assembly of people or special event on public property is not
regulated by Chapter 12. 12, it shall be deemed to be regulated by this chapter.
Prior Code Appendix A 2261; Ord. No. 88- 22, Enacted, 07/ 11/ 88)
18. 76 ( 4) Vista 2/ 14/ 20)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 78
Seasonal Use Permits
Sections:
18. 78.010 Seasonal Use Permit
18. 78.020 Time Limits
18. 78.030 Application
18. 78.040 Fees
18. 78.050 Processing
18. 78.060 Actions on Applications
18. 78.070 Appeal
Section 18. 78.010 Seasonal Use Permit
A seasonal use permit shall be required for the outdoor sale of large seasonal products
such as trees or pumpkins directly related to a specific holiday. No person shall sell, or offer for
sale, large seasonal products without a valid seasonal use permit.
Prior Code 2270; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 7/ 9/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.020 Time Limits
A seasonal use permit may be granted at any time; however, the permit shall not become
effective before the 31st day prior to the recognized holiday and shall expire on the 7th day after
the recognized holiday.
Prior Code 2270; Ord. No. 91- 18, Repealed, 7/ 9/ 91; Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.030 Application
The application for a seasonal use permit shall be made on such form and in such
manner as shall be determined by the City Planner. As a condition precedent to the issuance of
the permit, the owner of the property on which the use is located shall provide written assurance
and covenant that all conditions of the permit shall be complied with, and that in the event the
permittee fails to perform any obligations under the permit, the owner of the property shall
perform such obligations within seven days of issuance of a notice of violation and order by the
City. Failure on the part of the owner to comply with the notice of violation and order within the
time stated shall constitute a violation of this section, subject to enforcement by citation
pursuant to Chapter 1. 12 of the Vista Municipal Code.
Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.040 Fees
The City Council may set fees by resolution for seasonal use permits.
Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.050 Processing
Upon receipt of the application, the City Planner or designee shall process the seasonal
use permit and shall grant said permit in writing only if the following exists:
18. 78 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
A. The land proposed to be used for the sale of the item is zoned commercially
unless it is otherwise regulated by specific plan regulation.
B. The land proposed to be used shall be fenced or otherwise screened to insure
that no hazard to persons or property is created. This condition may be waived or modified by
the City Planner.
C. The signs for the use must also be approved at this time as part of the seasonal
sales permit.
D. The approval application and the approval shall include a signed affidavit or other
document by the applicant that he understands the terms and conditions of the permit and shall
vacate the site at the appropriate time. If the use is abandoned prior to the holiday, the site must
be cleaned up within seven days of the abandonment.
E. The applicant shall apply for such building permits as necessary and they may be
granted only if the seasonal use permit is approved.
F. No factors exist which would violate the use of a Class 4 categorical exemption
from the CEQA pursuant to Guidelines 15304(e). In the event that the possibility of a significant
environmental impact exits, the permit processing may require further environmental review per
CEQA Guidelines 15300. 2( c).
G. The applicant shall submit a plan for site clean- up.
H. The lot and its operation shall not interfere with any exiting use or violate any
existing City code or City regulation.
Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.060 Actions on Applications
The City Planner must act to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an application
within 14 calendar days of receipt of the application for a seasonal use permit unless
environmental review is required, in which event a decision will be issued within 14 days of
completion of the appropriate level of environmental review.
Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
Section 18. 78.070 Appeal
The action of the City Planner may be appealed pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150.
Ord. No. 95- 5, Enacted, 06/ 13/ 95)
18. 78 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 80
Amendments
Sections:
18. 80.010 When Permitted
18. 80.020 Initiation of Amendments
18. 80.030 Hearing by Planning Commission
18. 80.040 Date of Hearing
18. 80.050 Decision and Recommendation by Planning Commission
18. 80.060 City Council to Hold Public Hearing
18. 80.070 Decision by City Council
18. 80.080 City Council Action Conclusive
18. 80.090 Notice of Decision by City Council
18. 80. 100 Extension of Time
Section 18. 80.010 When Permitted
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, welfare and good zoning practice justify
such action, the City Council by ordinance may create or change a zone or district established
by this title, revise the boundaries of such zones, or establish, change or repeal the regulations
applying therein.
Prior Code Appendix A 2301)
Section 18. 80.020 Initiation of Amendments
Amendments to this title may be initiated by:
A. The application for an owner or the agent of such owner seeking an amendment,
supplement to, or change of the regulations prescribed for his property or the reclassification of
his property.
B. The application of a person authorized to exercise the power of eminent domain.
C. The City Council
D. The Planning Commission
Prior Code Appendix A 2302)
Section 18. 80.030 Hearing by Planning Commission
Upon the filing of a proper application for an amendment or on order of the Planning
Commission or the City Council, the Planning Commission shall hold one public hearing
thereon, and notice thereof shall be given as prescribed in Chapter 18. 04.
Prior Code Appendix A 2303)
Section 18. 80.040 Date of Hearing
The hearing shall be held not later than 50 days following the filing of an application for
such amendment or order of the Planning Commission or the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2304)
18. 80 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 80.050 Decision and Recommendation by Planning Commission
The Planning Commission shall announce its decision within 40 days following the
hearing and shall recommend the adoption of the amendment by the City Council or
recommend that the application be denied by such council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2305)
Section 18. 80.060 City Council to Hold Public Hearing
The City Council shall hold a hearing on the recommendation of the Planning
Commission within 50 days of the date of the Planning Commission recommendation.
Prior Code Appendix A 2306; Ord. No. 91- 18, Amended, 07/ 09/ 91)
Section 18. 80.070 Decision by City Council
The City Council shall announce its decision within 40 days following the hearing
required before such Council by this chapter. If the Council orders an amendment of this title, it
shall be by no less than three-fifths vote of all members of the City Council. The majority of the
City Council may also take no action on the amendment, in which case the amendment is
denied.
Prior Code Appendix A 2307)
Section 18. 80.080 City Council Action Conclusive
The action by the City Council on the application or recommendation for amendment
shall be final and conclusive.
Prior Code Appendix A 2308)
Section 18. 80.090 Notice of Decision by City Council
Within ten days following the decision of the City Council ordering the amendment of
this title or denying the application or recommendation for the amendment, the City Clerk shall
give notice of such decision to the applicant at the address shown on the application and to the
Planning Commission.
Prior Code Appendix A 2309)
Section 18. 80. 100 Extension of Time
The time within which the Planning Commission or the City Council shall act on an
application for an amendment may be extended by the City Council.
Prior Code Appendix A 2310)
18. 80 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 82
Enforcement, Violation and Penalty
Sections:
18. 82.010 Enforcement of Provisions
18. 82.020 Penalty Imposed
18. 82.030 Each Day a Separate Offense
18. 82.040 Violation Declared Public Nuisance - Remedies
Section 18. 82.010 Enforcement of Provisions
It shall be the duty of the City Manager or his designee( s) and the County Sheriff to
enforce all of the provisions of this title.
Prior Code Appendix A 2601)
Section 18.82.020 Penalty Imposed
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this title shall be
deemed guilty of an offense punishable in accordance with the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of
this code.
Prior Code Appendix A 2602)
Section 18. 82.030 Each Day a Separate Offense
Each person found guilty of a violation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provisions of this title is committed,
continued or permitted by such person and shall be punishable therefore as provided for in this
title, and any use, occupation or building or structure maintained contrary to the provisions
hereof shall constitute a public nuisance.
Prior Code Appendix A 2603)
Section 18. 82.040 Violation Declared Public Nuisance - Remedies
A. Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered or maintained and/ or any
use of property contrary to the provisions of this title shall be and the same is declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance, and any failure, refusal or neglect to obtain a permit as required
by the terms of this title shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that a nuisance has been
committed in connection with the erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of any
building or structure erected, constructed, altered or maintained or used contrary to the
provisions of this title.
B. The City Attorney shall, upon order of the City Council, immediately commence
necessary proceedings for the abatement, removal and/ or enjoinment thereof in the manner
provided by law.
C. All of the remedies provided for in this chapter shall be cumulative and not
inclusive.
Prior Code Appendix A 2604)
18. 82 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 84
Regulation of Adult-Oriented Businesses
Sections:
18. 84.010 Purpose
18. 84.020 Definitions
18. 84.030 Minimum Proximity Requirements
18. 84.040 Amortization of Legal Nonconforming Adult-Oriented Business Uses
18. 84.050 Extension of Time for Termination of Legal Nonconforming Adult-Oriented
Business Use
18. 84.060 Subsequent Location of Sensitive Uses
Section 18. 84.010 Purpose
It is the intent of this ordinance to prevent community wide adverse economic impacts,
increased crime, decreased property values, and the deterioration of neighborhoods which can
be brought about by the presence of adult-oriented businesses in close proximity to
incompatible uses such as schools for minors, churches, and residentially zoned districts or
uses. The City Council finds that it has been demonstrated in various communities that adultoriented
businesses cause an increase in the number of transients in the area, and an increase
in crime, and in addition to the effects described above can cause other businesses and
residents to move elsewhere. It is, therefore, the purpose of this ordinance to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent adult-oriented businesses from locating in close
proximity to incompatible uses, while permitting the location of adult- oriented businesses in
certain areas.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added, 07/ 10/ 01)
Section 18. 84.020 Definitions
In addition to any other definitions contained in the Municipal/ Development Code, the
following words and phrases shall, for the purpose of this chapter and Chapter 9. 12 be defined
as follows, unless it is clearly apparent from the context that another meaning is intended.
Should any of the definitions be in conflict with any current provisions of the
Municipal/ Development Code, these definitions shall prevail.
A. " Adult Arcade" shall mean a business establishment to which the public is
permitted or invited and where coin, card or slug operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled devices, still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos, holograms,
virtual reality devices or other image- producing devices are maintained to show images on a
regular or substantial basis, where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting or describing " specified sexual activities" or " specified
anatomical areas." Such devices shall be referred to as " adult arcade devices."
B. Adult Booth/Individual Viewing Area" shall mean a partitioned or partially
enclosed portion of an adult-oriented business used for any of the following purposes:
1. Where a live or taped performance is presented or viewed, where the
performances and/ or images displayed or presented are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or " specified
anatomical areas;" or
2. Where "adult arcade devices" are located.
18. 84 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
C. " Adult Cabaret" shall mean a business establishment ( whether or not serving
alcoholic beverages) that features "adult live entertainment."
D. " Adult Cabaret Dancer" shall mean any person who is an employee or
independent contractor of an " adult cabaret" or " adult-oriented business" and who, with or
without any compensation or other form of consideration, performs as a sexually oriented
dancer, exotic dancer, stripper, go-go dancer or similar dancer whose performance on a regular
and substantial basis focuses on or emphasizes the adult cabaret dancers breasts, genitals,
and/ or buttocks, but does not involve exposure of " specified anatomical areas" or depicting or
engaging in " specified sexual activities." "Adult cabaret dancer" does not include a patron.
E. " Adult Hotel/ Motel" shall mean a " hotel" or " motel" ( as defined in the Municipal
Code) that is used for presenting on a regular and substantial basis images through closed
circuit television, cable television, still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos,
holograms, virtual reality devices or other image- producing devices that are distinguished or
characterized by the emphasis on matter depicting or describing or relating to " specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
F. " Adult Live Entertainment" shall mean any physical human body activity,
whether performed or engaged in, alone or with other persons, including but not limited to
singing, walking, speaking, dancing, acting, posing, simulating, wrestling or pantomiming, in
which:
1. The performer ( including, but not limited to, topless and/ or bottomless
dancers, go- go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar performers) exposes to public view,
without opaque covering, " specified anatomical areas"; and/ or
2. The performance or physical human body activity depicts, describes, or
relates to " specified sexual activities" whether or not the specified anatomical areas are
covered.
G. " Adult Modeling Studio" shall mean a business establishment which provides
for any form of consideration, the services of a live human model, who, for the purposes of
sexual stimulation of patrons, displays " specified anatomical areas" to be observed, sketched,
photographed, filmed, painted, sculpted, or otherwise depicted by persons paying for such
services. " Adult modeling studio" does not include schools maintained pursuant to standards
set by the Board of Education of the State of California.
H. Adult Motion Picture Theater" shall mean a business establishment, with or
without a stage or proscenium, where, on a regular and substantial basis and for any form of
consideration, material is presented through films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser
disks, digital video disks, holograms, virtual reality devices, or similar electronically- generated
reproductions that is characterized by the depiction or description of" specified sexual activities"
or " specified anatomical areas".
I. Adult-Oriented Business" shall mean:
1. A business establishment or concern that as a regular and substantial
course of conduct operates as an adult retail store, adult motion picture theater, adult arcade,
adult cabaret, adult motel or hotel, adult modeling studio; or
2. A business establishment or concern which as a regular and substantial
course of conduct offers, sells or distributes " adult-oriented material" or " sexually oriented
merchandise," or which offers to its patrons materials, products, merchandise, services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities" or " specified anatomical areas" but not including those uses or
activities which are preempted by state law.
J. Adult-Oriented Material" shall mean accessories, paraphernalia, books,
magazines, laser disks, compact discs, digital video disks, photographs, prints, drawings,
paintings, motion pictures, pamphlets, videos, slides, tapes, holograms or electronically
generated images or devices including computer software, or any combination thereof that is
18. 84 (2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities" or " specified anatomical areas." " adult-oriented material" shall
include " sexually oriented merchandise."
K. " Adult Retail Store" shall mean a business establishment having as a regular
and substantial portion of its stock in trade, "adult-oriented material."
L. Church" or " Religious Institution" shall mean any part of a building or
structure which is used primarily for religious worship and religious activities.
M. " City Manager" shall mean the City Manager of Vista or the designee of the City
Manager, which may be either an employee of the City of Vista, or a hearing officer selected
through a process set by the City Manager.
N. " Establishment of an Adult-Oriented Business" shall mean any of the
following:
1. The opening or commencement of any " adult-oriented business" ( as
defined above) as a new business; or
2. The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an " adult- oriented
business," to any "adult-oriented business"; or
3. The addition of any " adult-oriented business" to any other existing " adultoriented
business;" or
4. The relocation of any "adult-oriented business"; or
5. Physical changes that expand the square footage of an existing " adultoriented
business" by more than ten percent.
O. " Municipal Code" shall mean both the City' s Municipal Code and the City' s
Development Code.
P. Owner/License Holder" shall mean any of the following:
1. The sole proprietor of an adult-oriented business;
2. Any general partner of a partnership that owns and operates an adultoriented
business;
3. The owner of a controlling interest in a corporation or L. L. C. that owns
and operates an adult-oriented business; or
4. The person designated by the officers of a corporation or the members of
an L. L. C. to be the permit holder for an adult- oriented business owned and operated by the
corporation.
Q. " Park" shall mean regional, community, neighborhood, mini- parks, parkettes and
school/ parks as set forth in the Open Space and Recreation Element of the Vista General Plan.
R. " Performer" shall mean a person who is an employee or independent contractor
of an adult- oriented business or any other person who, with or without any compensation or
other form of consideration, provides " adult live entertainment" for patrons of an " adult- oriented
business."
S. " Police Chief" shall mean the San Diego County Sheriff.
T. " Police Services Department" shall mean the San Diego County Sheriff
Department which is responsible for the provision of police services to the City of Vista.
U. " Residential" shall mean Residential Zoning Designations: RM, R- 1- 13, R- 1, E- 1,
A- 1; and the following Specific Plans: Specific Plan No. 1, Specific Plan No. 2, Specific Plan No.
8, Specific Plan No. 16, Specific Plan No. 21, Specific Plan No. 24, Specific Plan No. 26,
Specific Plan No. 28, Specific Plan No. 29, Specific Plan No. 32, Vista Townsite Specific Plan,
Hacienda Specific Plan, and Sierra Verde Specific Plan, or other equivalent zoning or specific
plan designation providing residential use that may be created by action of the City Council from
time to time.
V. " School" shall mean any child or day care facility, or an institution of learning for
minors, whether public or private, offering instruction in those courses of study required by the
California Education Code and maintained pursuant to standards set by the State Board of
18. 84 (3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Education. This definition includes nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, middle or
junior high school, senior high school, or any special institution of education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution of higher education, including a community or
junior college, college, or university.
W. " Sexually Oriented Merchandise" shall mean sexually oriented implements,
paraphernalia, or novelty items, such as, but not limited to: dildos, auto sucks, sexually oriented
vibrators, benwa balls, inflatable orifices, anatomical balloons with orifices, simulated and
battery operated vaginas, and similar sexually oriented devices which are designed or marketed
primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs or sado- masochistic activity or
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities" or " specified anatomical areas."
X. " Specified Anatomical Areas" shall mean and include any of the following:
1. Less than completely and opaquely covered, and/ or simulated to be
reasonably anatomically correct, even if completely and opaquely covered human:
a. genitals, pubic region;
b. buttocks, anus; or
C. female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
2. Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely or
opaquely covered.
Y. " Specified Sexual Activities" shall mean and include any of the following,
irrespective of whether performed directly or indirectly through clothing or other covering:
1. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; and/ or
2. Acts of human masturbation, sexual stimulation or arousal; and/ or
3. Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or
masturbation; and/ or
4. Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating, or the infliction of
pain, or bondage and/ or restraints; and/ or
5. Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation;
and/ or
6. Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock,
or female breast.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added, 07/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No, 2006- 12, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 16, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 18. 84.030 Minimum Proximity Requirements
No adult- oriented business shall be established or located in any zone in the City other
than in the M- 1 Zone, or within certain distances of certain specified land uses, zones, or roads
as set forth below:
A. No such business shall be established or located within 1, 000 feet from any
existing residential zone or use, park, church, or school. This distance shall be measured as a
radius from the primary entrance of the adult- oriented business to the property lines of the
property so zoned or used without regard to intervening structures.
B. No portion of such business, including any part of a parking lot serving such
business, shall be within 200 feet of a road, street or highway with a total of four or more lanes.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added, 07/ 10/ 01)
18. 84 (4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 84.040 Amortization of Legal Nonconforming Adult-Oriented Business Uses
A. Any adult-oriented business which does not conform to the locational criteria set
forth in Section 18. 84. 030 of this chapter after the effective date of this ordinance shall be
regarded as a nonconforming use which may be continued for a period not to exceed one year
from the effective date of this ordinance, unless an extension has been approved by the City
Manager in accordance with the provisions of Section 18. 84.050 of this chapter.
B. Any adult-oriented business located in any territory annexed to the City shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter. If such use is found to be nonconforming to this
chapter at the time of annexation, the amortization schedules provided in this section shall begin
on the effective date of said annexation.
C. The City Manager or his/ her designee shall cause official notification to be sent to
the legal property owner of record as it appears on the county tax roll by U. S. registered mail,
stating the nonconforming status of such adult-oriented business on the property at least 120
days prior to the expiration of the amortization period. Failure to give notice of the expiration of
the amortization period shall not be grounds to prevent an action seeking declaratory and/ or
injunctive relief against the owner of the business. If notice of the expiration of the amortization
period is not given, any application for an extension of the amortization period, pursuant to
Section 18. 84.050 of this chapter, shall not be denied on the grounds that it is untimely. If the
operator of such business is different from that of the legal property owner, additional
notification shall be sent to the business operator by U. S. registered mail.
D. No legal nonconforming adult-oriented business shall expand, enlarge, or modify
the area, space or volume occupied or devoted to such nonconforming use, or relocate or
convert into another adult use without first securing an adult-oriented business regulatory permit
from the City Manager in accordance with Chapter 9. 12 et seq. of the Vista Municipal Code.
E. Should any legal nonconforming adult-oriented business cease operation for a
period exceeding six consecutive months within the amortization schedule provided in this
section, said use shall be deemed to forfeit its legal nonconforming status and shall not be
continued or reopened at said location.
F. Upon the conclusion of the amortization schedule specified in this section and/ or
any extension granted pursuant to Section 18. 84.050 of this chapter, any legal nonconforming
adult- oriented business shall cease all business operation and shall remove all signs,
advertising and displays relating to said business within 15 days of City notification.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added, 07/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 12, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 16, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 18. 84.050 Extension of Time for Termination of Legal Nonconforming Adult-
Oriented Business Uses
A. The owner or operator of a nonconforming adult-oriented business use may file
an application with the City Clerk for an extension of the amortization period described in
Section 18. 84.040 of this chapter. In order to secure an extension of time, the owner must
submit to the City Clerk a written request for such extension at least 90 days but no more than
180 days prior to the expiration of the amortization provision. No application for extension
received after that date shall be considered, except as provided in Section 18. 84.040C. Such
written request shall state:
1. Whether the owner or operator of the adult- oriented business has timely
applied for an adult-oriented business regulatory permit under Chapter 9. 12 et seq. of this code,
whether such license has been denied, and, if the license has been denied, on what grounds it
was denied;
18. 84 (5) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Whether a previous extension has been requested and granted, as well
as the date of the previous request; and
3. The efforts that will be made to conform by the conclusion of the
extended period.
B. Within 28 days of receipt of the completed application, the City Manager shall set
the matter for a public hearing with notice of such hearing to be made by the City Manager or
his/ her designee pursuant to California Government Code Sections 65091 and 65905.
C. The hearing officer shall render a written decision on the application for an
extension of the amortization period within four City business days of the public hearing required
by this section. The failure of the hearing officer to render any decision within the time frames
established in any part of this section shall be deemed to constitute an approval allowing for a
one year extension, subject to appeal to the City Council, pursuant to Section 18. 04. 150 of this
code. The decision of the hearing officer shall be hand delivered or mailed in accordance with
the requirements of this code.
D. Notwithstanding any provisions in this section regarding the occurrence of any
action within a specified period of time, the applicant may request additional time beyond that
provided for in this section or may request a continuance regarding any decision or
consideration by the City of the pending application. Extensions of time sought by applicants
shall not be considered delay on the part of the City or constitute failure by the City to provide
for prompt decisions on applications.
E. In rendering its decision to grant or deny the extension, the hearing officer shall
determine whether the adult-oriented business has been provided with a reasonable
amortization period commensurate with the financial investment involved. If the hearing officer
determines that the amortization period is not reasonable, it shall prescribe an amortization
period that is commensurate with the financial investment involved. The burden shall be on the
applicant to establish that an extension should be granted. The hearing officer shall consider
the following facts in making its determination:
1. The amount of the adult-oriented business owner' s financial investment,
excluding goodwill, in the existing adult-oriented business through the date of passage and
approval of this ordinance;
2. The amount of such investment that has been or will be realized through
the effective date;
3. The life expectancy of the existing adult-oriented business;
4. Whether any such structures have depreciated below a reasonable
salvageable value, taking into consideration the applicable Internal Revenue Service
depreciation schedules;
5. The existence or nonexistence of obligations pursuant to any lease,
sublease and/ or extensions to that lease or sublease, as well as any contingency clauses
therein permitting termination of such lease;
6. The cost of relocating the business to a site conforming with the
provisions of this chapter;
7. The ability of the business and/ or land owner to change the use to a
conforming use;
8. The date upon which the property owner and/ or business operator
received notice of the nonconforming status of the use and the amortization requirements; and
9. The effects on the health, safety and welfare of surrounding businesses
and uses if an extension is granted, including any prior incidents of illicit sexual activity at the
adult facility.
F. The hearing officer' s decision shall be in writing, and shall be hand delivered or
sent by certified mail to the applicant, and shall be noticed in accordance with the provisions of
this code.
18. 84 (6) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
G. Extensions that are granted shall specify a certain date for closure, and shall not
be valid for operation at any other location. If the hearing officer grants the application, the
applicant may continue operation until the date specified for closure in the written order granting
the extension.
H. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final and subject to judicial review
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8. Any applicant or license holder
whose license has been denied pursuant to this section shall be afforded prompt judicial review
of that decision as provided by California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.8. Notice of the
hearing officer's decision and findings shall include citation to California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094. 8.
Ord. No. 2001- 12, Added, 07/ 10/ 01; Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 12, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 1/ 06; Ord.
No. 2006- 16, Repealed and Replaced, 8/ 8/ 06)
Section 18. 84.060 Subsequent Location of Sensitive Uses
An adult-oriented business or establishment operating as a conforming use with an
approved adult-oriented business regulatory permit from the City shall not be rendered a
nonconforming use by the subsequent location of residential zones, churches, schools, or parks
within the Iocational limitations of Section 18. 84.030. For purposes of this section, a use shall
be deemed to be subsequently located if it commences following the date an application for an
adult- oriented business regulatory permit is filed pursuant to Section 9. 12. 030.
Urgency Ord. No. 2006- 12, Added, 8/ 1/ 06; Ord. No. 2006- 16, Added, 8/ 8/ 06)
18. 84 (7) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 86
Requests for Reasonable Accommodations
Under the Fair Housing Acts
Sections:
18. 86.010 Purpose
18. 86.020 Applicability
18. 86.030 Application Requirements
18. 86.040 Review Authority and Procedure
18. 86.050 Findings and Decision
18. 86.060 Appeal of Determination
18. 86.010 Purpose
This chapter provides a procedure to request reasonable accommodation for persons
with disabilities seeking equal access to housing under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act ( the " Acts") in the application of zoning laws and
other land use regulations, policies and procedures.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86.020 Applicability
A. A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person with a
disability, or by an entity acting on behalf of a person or persons with disabilities, to provide or
secure equal access to housing when the application of a zoning law or other land use
regulation, policy, or practice acts as a barrier to fair housing opportunities. A person with a
disability is: a person who has a physical or mental impairment that limits or substantially limits
one or more major life activities; anyone who is regarded as having such impairment; or anyone
who has a record of such impairment. This section is intended to apply to those persons who
are defined as disabled under the Acts.
B. A request for reasonable accommodation may include a modification or
exception to the rules, standards, development and use of housing or housing- related facilities
that would eliminate regulatory barriers and provide a person with a disability with equal
opportunity to housing of their choice. Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be made
in the manner prescribed by Section 18. 86. 030.
C. If a request for reasonable accommodation is granted, the request shall be
granted to an individual and shall not run with the land unless it is determined that: ( 1) the
modification is physically integrated into the residential structure and cannot easily be removed
or altered to comply with the code, or (2) the accommodation is to be used by another individual
with a disability.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86.030 Application Requirements
A request for reasonable accommodation shall be initiated by submitting a completed
application form, signed by the property owner or authorized agent, accompanied by the
required fee, and the following information submitted in the form of a letter to the City Planner:
A. The applicant' s name, address and telephone number.
18. 86 (l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. The street address and assessor' s parcel number of the property for which the
request is being made.
C. The current actual use of the property.
D. The basis for the claim that the individual ( or group of individuals, if application is
made by an entity acting on behalf of a person or persons with disabilities) is considered
disabled under the Acts.
E. The zoning law, provision, regulation or policy from which reasonable
accommodation is being requested.
F. Why the requested accommodation is necessary to make the specific property
accessible to the individual or group of individuals.
G. Credible documentation shall be provided with respect to each element
described above so that the City can fully evaluate the application and verify the factual basis
underlying the need for the accommodation. The documentation shall be provided in a manner
to permit the City to independently make this assessment.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86.040 Review Authority and Procedure
A. Requests for reasonable accommodation associated with a ministerial land use,
building, or similar determination shall be reviewed by the person or authority with responsibility
to act on the associated ministerial determination. Such person or authority shall make a written
determination within 45 days and either grant, grant with modifications or deny such a request
for reasonable accommodation in accordance with Section 18. 86.050.
B. Requests for reasonable accommodation associated with a discretionary land
use, building, or similar determination shall be reviewed by the person or authority with
responsibility to make such determination. Notice and hearing shall be as required for the
associated discretionary land use, building, or other determination. Such person or authority
shall make a written determination and either grant, grant with modifications or deny such a
request for reasonable accommodation in accordance with Section 18. 86.050.
C. Unless waived by the City Planner to satisfy applicable legal standards binding
the City, an application for reasonable accommodation must be submitted with and processed
concurrently with an application for the associated land use, building, or similar determination,
whether such determination is ministerial or discretionary. Such request for reasonable
accommodation shall be made on a separate document that is appended to the other
application or applications for the associated ministerial or discretionary determinations. The
document or pages requesting the reasonable accommodation shall include all of the
information required by this chapter and shall be clearly identified as a request for reasonable
accommodation. When the City Planner waives the need to submit an application that would
ordinarily be associated with a request for reasonable accommodation, the request for
reasonable accommodation shall be considered by the person or entity that would ordinarily act
on the determination which has been waived, and notice and hearing shall be as required for
the determination which has been waived.
D. A request for a reasonable accommodation that would waive or modify the notice
and hearing requirements of Sections 18. 86. 040B and 18. 86.040C shall be reviewed by the City
Planner. The City Planner shall make a written determination within 15 days and shall either
grant, grant with modifications or deny the request in accordance with Section 18. 86. 050.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86 (2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
18. 86.050 Findings and Decision
A. The written decision to grant, grant with modifications or deny a request for
reasonable accommodation will be consistent with the Acts. The reviewing authority may grant
the requested accommodation or grant it with modifications if all of the following findings can be
made:
1. The housing which is the subject of the request will be used by an
individual or a group of individuals considered disabled under the Acts.
2. The accommodation requested is reasonable and necessary to make
specific housing available to the individual or group of individuals with disability or disabilities
under the Acts.
3. The requested reasonable accommodation would not impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the City.
4. The requested reasonable accommodation would not require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of a City program or law, including but not limited to, land
use and zoning.
B. In making a decision regarding the reasonableness of the requested
accommodation, the evaluation may consider, among other factors, the following:
1. Whether there are alternative reasonable accommodations available that
would provide an equivalent level of benefit.
2. Whether the requested reasonable accommodation substantially affects
the physical attributes of the property or has impacts on surrounding properties that would
fundamentally alter a City program or law.
3. In the case of a determination involving a one-family dwelling, whether
the household would be considered a single housekeeping unit if it were not using the special
services that are required because of the disabilities of the residents.
C. In granting a request for reasonable accommodation, the reviewing authority may
impose any conditions of approval needed to ensure that the reviewing authority can make the
findings required in Subsection A of this section. Conditions may include, but are not limited to,
ensuring that any removable structures or physical design features that are constructed or
installed in association with a reasonable accommodation be removed once those structures or
physical design features are unnecessary to provide access to the dwelling unit for the current
occupants.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86.060 Appeal of Determination
The sole means of reviewing the decision of the approving authority ( City Planner or
other approving body) to grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request for reasonable
accommodation is by filing an appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, City Planner,
Planning Commission, or other approving body as provided in this title.
Ord. No. 2007- 10, Added, 6/ 26/ 07)
18. 86 (3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 88
Large Family Day Care Homes
Sections:
18. 88.010 Purpose
18. 88.020 Definitions
18. 88.030 Exclusions
18. 88.040 Permitted Zones
18. 88.050 Application
18. 88.060 Review
18. 88.070 Development and Operational Standards
18. 88.080 Permit Revocations; Appeals
18. 88.090 Termination; Suspension, Modification or Revocation
Section 18. 88.010 Purpose
The purpose of the family day care development regulations is to:
A. Recognize that affordable, quality, licensed day care is critical to both the wellbeing
of children and parents as well as the economic vitality of the City.
B. Provide a comprehensive set of guidelines to ensure that large family day care
homes are located and operated to avoid undue impacts involving traffic control, parking, noise,
and concentration to assure that these uses can be located in single family zones.
C. Enhance provider awareness of City requirements.
D. Implement the requirements and procedures of this chapter in furtherance of and
consistently with Health and Safety Code, Section 1597.40.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10)
Section 18. 88.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms used herein relating to the provision of family
day care services are defined as follows:
Administrative Permit" shall mean a permit issued to a person or business entity for
the purpose of operating a large family day care home in a single-family dwelling that complies
with the standards, restrictions and requirements contained in this Chapter.
Child or children" shall mean a person or persons, under 18 years of age being
provided care and supervision in a child care facility.
Director" shall mean the Community Development Director for the City of Vista or
his/ her designee.
Large family day care home" shall mean a single- family dwelling which provides
family day care for seven to 14 children, including children under the age of ten years who
reside at the home as defined in Section 1597.465 of the California Health and Safety Code and
as permitted by the licensing agency.
Provider" shall mean a person or entity who operates a large family day care home
and is licensed by the state to provide child care services.
Rear yard" means the area behind the single family dwelling exclusive of side yard
areas.
Solid barrier wall" means a solid wall or other structure enclosing the rear yard with a
height of at least five feet and noise attenuating properties superior to open fencing.
State code" means Section 1597.46 of the California Health and Safety Code.
18. 88 ( l) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended
10/ 11/ 16)
Section 18. 88.030 Exclusions
The requirements of this chapter do not apply to the following:
A. Any home providing care for the children of only one family in addition to the
provider' s own children.
B. Any cooperative arrangement between parents for the care of their children by
one or more of the parents where no payment for the care is involved.
C. Any arrangement for the receiving and care of children by a relative.
D. Any public recreation programs conducted by a public entity specified in and
meeting the requirements of Health and Safety Code Section 1596. 792( g); or recreation
programs conducted for children by a Boys' Club, a Girls' Club, the Brownies, the Cub/ Boy/ Girl
Scouts, the Campfire Girls or similar such organizations as determined by state regulations
issued pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 1596. 793.
E. Any public or private schools operating before and after school recreational
programs.
F. A small family day care home.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10)
Section 18. 88.040 Permitted Zones
Large family day care homes shall be permitted in the following zones: O- R, A- 1, E- 1,
R- 1, R- 1- B, and any portion of specific plan area which is zoned for single family dwellings.
Large family day care homes are not permitted outside the listed zones.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10)
Section 18.88.050 Application
A. An application for a large family day care home shall be in the form prescribed by
the Director. An application shall be accompanied by:
1. Complete plans and description of the property involved, including any
planned physical improvements. Such plans and descriptions may be
prepared by hand if the plans and descriptions provide accurate dimensions,
designations, and descriptions.
2. Operational hours for the large family day care home.
3. Plan for controlling drop- offs and pick- up of children.
B. The application form shall advise applicants of the right to request a fee
verification. Upon request, the Zoning Administrator shall provide information regarding fees
and the estimated processing times in accordance with state law.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended
10/ 11/ 16)
Section 18.88.060 Review
A. Upon receipt of a complete application for large family day care, the Zoning
Administrator shall review the application and may obtain recommendations and reports from
other city departments as deemed necessary.
B. The Zoning Administrator shall issue an administrative permit for a large family
day care home if the applicant establishes that each of the following is true:
18. 88 (2) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
1. The large family day care home at the proposed location will satisfy the
development and operational standards in Section 18. 88. 070.
2. The proposed location has received a fire department inspection and is
approved for occupancy for a large family day care home.
C. If an application for an administrative permit is denied, the Zoning Administrator
shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons and basis for the denial.
D. The correspondence conveying the administrative permit shall advise the
applicant of development and operational standards set forth under Section 18. 88. 070.
E. Within 10 calendar days of the Zoning Administrator' s action on the application,
notice of the establishment of a large family day care home shall be sent to all registered
owners of property located within 100 feet of the subject property.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended,
10/ 11/ 16)
Section 18. 88.070 Development and Operational Standards
The following minimum standards must be satisfied before an applicant is issued an
administrative permit, and at all times that a large family day care is in operation:
A. A valid and current day care license issued by the California Department of
Social Services shall be secured and maintained.
B. To protect adjacent residential dwellings from undue noise impacts: ( 1) outdoor
activities shall be restricted to the hours of 8: 00 a.m. to 6: 00 p. m.; and ( 2) the large family day
care home shall be subject to the City' s noise ordinance.
C. To accommodate street traffic and to ensure that children are not placed at risk
during drop- off and pick- up, there shall be a minimum of two on- street parking spaces adjacent
to the large family day care home.
D. To minimize the congregation of vehicles engaged in drop-offs and pick- ups, a
period of at least thirty minutes must separate the end of one session and the start of a following
session.
E. The large family day care home shall be the principal residence of the day care
provider, and the use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary use of the
property as a residence.
F. In order to maintain the integrity of residential neighborhoods, large family day
care homes shall not be located closer than three hundred feet from an existing state- licensed
large family day care home, measured from the closest point of the lot line.
G. To minimize adverse parking impacts on the neighborhood, all spaces within a
garage at the large family day care shall be used, or kept open for use, by the owners,
residents, employees and/ or visitors of the large family day care during all periods that the large
family day care operates.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended,
10/ 11/ 16)
Section 18. 88.080 Permit Revocations; Appeals
A. In the event a decision to deny, suspend, or revoke an administrative permit is
made by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant or permittee shall have the right to appeal the
decision to the director within ten calendar days of the date of the written decision. A written
notice of appeal shall be timely filed by the permit holder with the director using a form prepared
by the applicant or permit holder. The appeal shall be signed by the applicant or permit holder,
state the matter being appealed, describe the result sought, and present all reasons and facts
along with supportive evidence) for the outcome sought. Upon receipt of an appeal, the
18. 88 (3) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
director shall set the matter for review within fifteen calendar days of the filing of said notice of
appeal. Written rules for the review shall be shared, and may provide that the review will occur
without oral testimony and will consider only written submissions made in advance of the
review. Notice may be given by either personal delivery to the applicant, or by registered mail to
the location of the large family day care.
B. Within ten calendar days of the review, the director shall provide a written
determination to the appellant either granting or denying the relief sought on appeal, and
presenting the evidence and reasons on which the decision was based. The decision of the
director is final and may not be appealed.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10; Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended,
10/ 11/ 16)
Section 18. 88.090 Termination; Suspension, Modification or Revocation
A. Any permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall terminate upon the earlier of: (1)
the cessation of operation of a large family day care home for a period of six months, without
any prior notice to the owner; ( 2) the sale of the property used for the large family day care
home when the owner of the property also operates the large family day care home; or ( 3)
expiration of the large family day care license issued by the California Department of Social
Services.
B. Upon written notice to the permit holder, the Zoning Administrator may suspend
or revoke a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter ( subject to appeal rights) if the large family
day care home has been conducted in a manner contrary to the requirements of this Chapter.
Ord. No. 2008- 26, Enacted, 9/ 9/ 08; Ord. No. 2010- 14, Amended, 7/ 13/ 10, Ord. No. 2016- 15, Amended,
10/ 11/ 16)
18. 88 (4) Vista 11/ 11/ 16)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18. 90
Residential Density Bonus Ordinance
Sections:
18. 90.010 Purpose and Intent
18. 90.020 Definitions
18. 90.030 Projects Eligible to Receive Density Bonuses
18. 90.040 Amount of Density Bonus
18. 90.050 Number of Concessions
18. 90.060 Additional Bonuses and Concessions for Day Care Facilities
18. 90.070 Application Process
18. 90.080 Decision; Findings; Conditions
18. 90.090 Fees; Expenses; Reimbursement
18. 90. 100 Regulation, Parking, Interpretation; Enforcement
Section 18. 90.010 Purpose and Intent
This chapter implements Government Code Section 65915 et seq. by providing
incentives to developers who produce housing for senior households and households with very
low, low, or moderate incomes. It is intended that density bonuses and concessions provided
pursuant to this chapter shall equal, but not exceed, the minimum required pursuant to the state
law.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90.020 Definitions
The following terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings set forth below:
Adjusted for Household Size Appropriate for the Unit" shall have the meaning set
forth in Health and Safety Code Section 50052. 5( h).
Affordability Period" means a period of at least 55 years during which an affordable
unit shall be occupied by an eligible household and made available at an affordable rent or
affordable sales price.
Affordable Rent" means monthly housing rent, including utilities and all fees for
housing services ( calculated in accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 50053 and 25
CCR Section 6918), which does not exceed the following:
1. For very low income households: 30 percent of 50 percent of the area
median income for county, adjusted for household size appropriate for the unit, divided by 12.
2. For lower-income households: 30 percent of 60 percent of the area
median income for county, adjusted for household size appropriate for the unit, divided by 12.
Affordable Housing Cost" means average monthly housing costs during the first
calendar year of a household' s occupancy ( calculated in accordance with Health and Safety
Code Section 50052. 5 and 25 CCR Section 6920), including mortgage payments, property
taxes, homeowner's insurance, and homeowners association dues, if any, which do not exceed:
1. For very low income households: 30 percent of 50 percent of the area
median income, adjusted for household appropriate for the unit, divided by 12.
2. For lower income households: 30 percent of 70 percent of the area
median income adjusted for household appropriate for the unit, divided by 12.
3. For moderate income households: 35 percent of 110 percent of the area
median income adjusted for household size appropriate for the unit, divided by 12.
18. 90 (l) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
To qualify as an affordable housing cost the purchaser: ( 1) shall make a down payment
of at least three percent of the purchase price, but not more than 20 percent of the purchase
price; (2) obtain a 30-year fully amortizing loan; and ( 3) obtain a fixed rate loan with level
payments or such other loan as may satisfy applicable City affordability standards ( i. e, an
adjustable rate loan without a "teaser rate," etc).
Affordable Unit" means a dwelling unit within a residential development, which will be
reserved for sale or rent to very low, low, or moderate income households at an affordable sales
price or affordable rents in a manner to qualify the residential development for a density bonus
under this chapter. Affordable units also include each unit in a senior citizen housing
development.
Area Median Income" means area median income for San Diego County as published
by the State of California pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Section 6932, or
successor provision.
Child Care Facility" means a child day care facility, other than a family day care
home, including, but not limited to, infant centers, preschools, extended day care facilities, and
school age child day care centers.
Common Interest Development" means housing that qualifies as a common interest
development under Section 1351 of the Civil Code provided that all units in the development are
offered to the public for purchase.
Concession" means a concession or an incentive, as more particularly described in
Government Code Section 65915( 1), which will result in financially sufficient and identifiable cost
reductions designed to facilitate the provision of density bonus units or a qualified day care
facility. Such concessions can include, among other things, a reduction in the site development
standards or zoning requirements, approval of mixed use zoning under the conditions set forth
in Section 65915( 1), and other regulatory incentives or concessions. Each individual relaxation
of a regulatory control and each individual form of encouragement provided or granted by the
City ( e. g., front setback, lot coverage ratio, minimum lot size, driveway location) shall constitute
a separate concession. Under no circumstances shall the City be required to grant, as a
concession or incentive, public land, a waiver of fees, a waiver of dedication requirements, or
direct financial incentives for the housing development.
County" means the County of San Diego.
Density Bonus" means a density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable
residential density under the applicable zoning ordinance and Land Use Element of the General
Plan as of the date of the application, as granted under this chapter, which shall not exceed 35
percent.
Density Bonus Regulations" means a City Council Policy establishing procedural or
substantive regulations to implement state law and this chapter which are not in conflict with the
provisions or purposes of such legal authorities.
Density Bonus Units" means those units that are built due to a grant of a density
bonus and which exceed the otherwise maximum allowable residential density for the
development site.
Dwelling Unit" means a dwelling designed and intended for residential occupancy by
one household.
Eligible Household" means a household that satisfies the size and income
requirements applicable to an affordable unit.
Eligible Residential Development" means a development listed in paragraph A of
Section 18. 90.030 and which has an entitlement to a density bonus under state law.
Housing Development" means residential units constructed in the city for sale or rent
consisting of a minimum of five units prior to a density bonus. For purposes of this chapter,
housing development" also includes a subdivision, planned unit development, or condominium
project, the substantial rehabilitation and conversion of an existing commercial building to
18. 90 (2) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
residential use, and the substantial rehabilitation and conversion of an existing multifamily
dwelling, where the rehabilitation or conversion would create a net increase of residential units.
Inclusionary Housing Program" means the program established by the Vista
Development Code for the purpose of requiring the inclusion of affordable units in housing
developments as part of the City' s exercise of its land use powers provided under the California
Constitution, including, without limitation, the program established by Section 18. 34. 120.
Lower Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed the
lower income limits applicable to county, as published and periodically updated by the State
Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 50079. 5 of the
California Health and Safety Code.
Maximum Allowable Residential Density" means the maximum density allowed for a
particular development based on the combined regulatory constraints imposed by the City' s
Development Code and Land Use Element, or if a range of density is permitted, the maximum
allowable density for the specific range applicable to the site. In determining maximum
allowable residential density, conditions particular to the site shall be considered which affect
the density of a development, such as the presence of wetlands, open space easements,
protected habitat, and the like. In no event shall the maximum allowable residential density
provided by this definition be applied to a development project in a way to produce a lower
density than the minimum, which would be required by Section 65915 of the Government Code.
Mandated Operating Period" means a period of at least 30 years during which the
affordable units, the qualified child care facility, or the senior citizen housing development is
operated in accordance with the requirements of state law and this chapter.
Moderate Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed
the moderate income limits applicable to county, as published and periodically updated by the
State Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 50093 of the
California Health and Safety Code.
Qualified Day Care Facility" means a day care facility which: ( 1) is located in or
adjacent to a housing development that has dwelling units reserved for very low, low, or
moderate income households in satisfaction of this chapter; (2) serves children from very low,
low, or moderate income households ( as applicable) in a percentage equaling the percentage of
restricted units reserved for that income category within the housing development; and ( 3) is
subject to a recorded child care regulatory agreement requiring operation of the day care facility
for a period that at least equals the affordability period. For example, if ten percent of the units
are reserved for low income households, at least ten percent of the space in the day care facility
must be reserved for children from low income households.
Qualifying Land Dedication" means a donation of land which: ( 1) is at least one acre
in size and sufficient to permit development of at least 40 units; ( 2) is within the boundaries of
the proposed development to receive the density bonus; ( 3) is sufficiently large to accommodate
construction of units affordable to very low income households in an amount equal or greater
than ten percent of the number of residential units in the development receiving the density
bonus; (4) does not require a change in the zoning or General Plan to accommodate the
affordable development or to render it financially feasible; ( 5) will be served by adequate public
facilities or infrastructure; (6) will be transferred to the City or its designee ( at the City' s
choosing) after developer has secured all permits and approvals required for the affordable
development ( with the exception of building permits); ( 7) will be accomplished prior to the
approval of a final map or approval of the development receiving the density bonus; ( 8) will be
subject to an agreement, to be recorded concurrently with or prior to transfer, guarantying
construction and operation of the affordable units in compliance with the requirements of state
law and this chapter; and ( 9) otherwise satisfies the requirements of state law, Section 65915 of
the Government Code, and this chapter. In its discretion, the City may: ( a) require that the
party making the land dedication secure a developer acceptable to the City willing to build the
18. 90 (3) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
affordable project within the proposed budget; and ( b) waive the requirement set forth in clause
2) if the land to be dedicated is within one- quarter mile of the development that will receive the
density bonus. In determining whether the development is financially feasible pursuant to
clause ( 4), the City shall consider the costs of development, projected revenues and other
factors typically considered in determining whether a development provides a rate of return
typically required by developers. Grants and subsidies from the government or third parties
shall not be considered in this calculation, unless the developer provides adequate security to
substitute for the grant or subsidy in the event that it is not actually contributed to the affordable
units.
Required Entitlements" means all discretionary approvals, permits, licenses, zoning
amendments, or other actions that must be authorized, granted, or approved by the City
including its City Council, commissions, officers, and employees) for the proposed housing
development to be fully approved by the City in the manner presented in the density bonus
application. Required entitlements can include, among other approvals, zoning amendments,
tentative maps, parcel maps, site development plans, special use permits, environmental
approvals, and the like.
Regulatory Agreement" means an agreement that is recorded against the relevant
property and which binds the owner's successors and assigns, including the following
provisions:
A. Provisions Common to All Regulatory Agreements. Except as provided below,
the agreement shall: ( 1) bind the relevant property or properties for a period equaling or
exceeding the mandated operating period; ( 2) require compliance with the terms of state law,
this chapter, and all other applicable statues, ordinances, regulations and covenants running
with the land; ( 3) provide the City with reports, monitoring procedures, and enforcement
methods ( including legal actions permitting the recovery of attorney fees) to assure compliance
with the preceding obligations; ( 4) provide reimbursement to the City for its expenses whether
those expenses arise on a recurring or nonrecurring basis; and ( 5) create other requirements to
protect neighborhood and the public interest which do not impair the intent or purposes of this
chapter or state law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the regulatory agreement shall control an
affordable condominium unit reserved for moderate income households only until the initial sale
of the condominium unit occurs, provided all applicable equity sharing and similar legal
obligations imposed by Government Code Section 65915 are satisfied.
B. Developments with Affordable Units. The agreement shall: ( 1) set forth the
number of affordable units, their size, location, and production schedule; ( 2) require that
affordable units be made available to eligible households at an affordable rent or affordable
housing cost based on household size appropriate for the affordable unit; (3) prohibit an eligible
household from renting or subletting an affordable unit; ( 4) limit sales of units reserved for low
and very low income households to affordable sales made to eligible households ( until the
mandated operating period lapses); ( 5) control for sales of moderate income condominiums to
provide the City with a share of the sale proceeds to achieve the equity-sharing arrangement
required by Government Code Section 65915(c)(2); and ( 6) place a deed of trust on the
affordable for-sale units to assure that the City obtains any required equity-sharing payment
and, for other for sale units, to place a deed of trust to secure performance of all obligations
imposed by this chapter and state law.
C. Developments with Qualifying Land Dedications. The agreement shall: ( 1)
assure that the applicant has proposed a development for very low income households that will
provide sufficient affordable units to satisfy the applicable density bonus requirements; (2)
guarantee that all permits and plans required for development have received full approval, with
the exception of building permits; ( 3) require that a qualified contractor, acceptable to the City,
has committed to build the development at the cost proposed by the applicant; ( 4) establish,
upon the construction of the project, controls for the affordable units satisfying paragraphs A
18. 90 (4) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
and B above; and ( 5) require that the units, once constructed, shall be used ( for the mandated
operating period) to provide affordable very low income housing.
D. Senior Citizen Housing Developments. The agreement shall assure that the
development is operated in accordance with Sections 51. 3 and 51. 12 of the Civil Code, or if the
development is a mobile home park, that it operates in accordance with Section 798.76 or 799.5
of the Civil Code.
E. Developments with Qualified Child Care Facilities. The agreement shall: ( 1)
require that the facility provide care for children of very low, low, or moderate income
households as required to satisfy Government Code Section 65915( i); and ( 2) provide financial
or other guarantees to assure the continued operation of the day care facility during the
mandated operating period.
Senior Citizen Housing Development" means a housing development of at least 35
dwelling units with the characteristics described in Sections 51. 3 and 51. 12 of the Civil Code, or
a mobile home park that limits residency based on age requirements for housing for older
persons pursuant to Section 798. 76 or 799. 5 of the Civil Code.
Specific Adverse Impact" means a " specific adverse impact" as defined in Section
65589.5 of the Government Code which cannot be satisfactorily mitigated without rendering the
development unaffordable to very low, low and moderate income households, as applicable.
State Law" means Sections 65915 through 65918 of the California Government Code.
Substantial Rehabilitation" means the rehabilitation of dwelling units including
correction of code violations, Title 24 upgrades, seismic rehabilitation ( where appropriate) and
accessibility upgrades such that the unit is returned to the City' s housing supply as decent, safe
and sanitary housing. The minimum cost threshold for substantial rehabilitation is $ 40,000 per
unit, which shall be adjusted each calendar year, beginning in 2010, to account for the
cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index published for the County of San Diego, or if
such index is no longer published, such equivalent index as shall be selected by the Director of
Community Development.
Very Low Income Household" means households whose income does not exceed
the very low income limits applicable to county, as published and periodically updated by the
State Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to Section 50105 of the
California Health and Safety Code.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09; Ord. No. 2017- 17, Amended, 10/ 24/ 17)
Section 18.90.030 Eligibility to Receive Density Bonuses and Concessions
A. Eligible Developments. A housing development with at least five dwelling units is
eligible to receive a density bonus and/ or concession if it satisfies one of the following
requirements:
1. At least ten percent of the total dwelling units, prior to the grant of the
density bonus, are reserved for lower income households.
2. At least five percent of the total dwelling units, prior to the grant of the
density bonus, are reserved for very low income households.
3. The development qualifies as a common interest development and at
least ten percent of the total dwelling units, prior to the grant of a density bonus, are reserved for
moderate income households.
4. The development is a condominium conversion and: ( a) at least 15
percent of the total dwelling units are reserved for low income households; or ( b) at least 33
percent of the total dwelling units are reserved for moderate income households.
5. The development is a senior citizen housing development.
6. The development provides a qualifying land dedication.
18. 90 (5) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
B. Categorization of Project. The applicant who requests a density bonus shall
elect one of the above categories to be used in calculating available density bonuses and
concessions. The selection shall be identified in the initial application to the City.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90.040 Amount of Density Bonus
A. General. Eligible projects shall receive density bonuses equal to the bonus
required to satisfy state law. The City Planner shall distribute density bonus regulations to
interested persons, free of charge, setting forth authorized density bonuses based on project
type. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent an applicant from accepting a density bonus, which is
less than the minimum required under state law.
B. Aggregation Rules. The density bonus available to an eligible residential project
listed in clauses ( 1) through ( 4) of Section 18. 90. 030.A may be aggregated with the density
bonuses available for providing a day care facility or for a project that provides a qualifying land
dedication. No other form of aggregation shall be permitted and a density bonus, when
aggregated, may not exceed 35 percent.
C. Maximum Allowable Residential Density. When the zoning ordinance sets a
maximum density in a single family zone by establishing a minimum lot area for each lot, the
maximum allowable residential density for the project will be the maximum number of lots that
can be legally established on a project site under the applicable zoning and General Plan, after
taking into account all characteristics particular to the site. That number would then be
increased by the applicable density bonus percentage, and rounded upwards if the resulting
number is not a whole number. In no event shall the maximum allowable residential density
provided by this definition be applied to a development project in a way to produce a lower
density than the minimum, which would be required by Section 65915 of the Government Code.
D. Regulatory Agreement. A regulatory agreement shall be recorded against any
property receiving a density bonus or which will provide affordable housing pursuant to this
chapter. The agreement shall be recorded at the earliest time possible, but in all events, prior to
issuing a building permit, or in the case of subdivisions, prior to approving a final map.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90.050 Number of Concessions
A. Calculating Number of Concessions. Eligible residential developments shall
receive concession( s) in a number to satisfy the minimum requirements of state law, unless the
applicant agrees to a lesser number or the City makes the findings to deny the concessions in
accordance with Section 18. 90.080. 13. The City Planner shall distribute program regulations to
interested persons, free of charge, which set forth the authorized number of land use
concessions based on project type. For purposes of this calculation, each individual deviation
or incentive from the zoning requirements, rules, or other standards or conditions of the City
shall constitute a separate concession. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a variation in one
standard or requirement shall constitute only one concession if, by necessity, the one variation
results in the automatic and unavoidable variation in a second standard.
B. Select Projects; Concessions Unavailable. Concessions shall not be provided to:
1) senior citizen housing developments; or ( 2) a development which obtains its entire density
bonus entitlement through a qualifying land dedication.
C. Redevelopment Projects. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code,
additional concessions may be granted beyond those permitted by paragraphs A and B if: ( 1)
the housing development is subject to a contract with the Community Development Commission
of the City of Vista; (2) the contract authorizes the land owner or developer to request City
18. 90 (6) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
approval of such additional concessions; ( 3) the grant of the additional concession(s) is
required to render the affordable housing feasible; and ( 4) the City affirmatively determines that
approval of the additional concession is required to advance the interests of the community and
can occur without any adverse impact.
D. Regulatory Agreement. A regulatory agreement shall be recorded against any
property receiving a concession pursuant to this chapter. The agreement shall be recorded at
the earliest time possible, but in all events, prior to issuing a building permit, or in the case of
subdivisions, prior to approving a final map.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18.90.060 Supplemental Density Bonuses and Concessions
A. Child Care Facilities.
1. Unless the City, in accordance with Government Code Section 65915( i),
makes a finding that it has adequate child care facilities, an eligible project shall receive an
additional density bonus or an additional concession if it provides a qualified day care facility.
2. The City shall decide whether it provides an additional density bonus or
an additional concession pursuant to this section. If an additional density bonus is provided, the
additional residential area shall equal the square footage of the qualified child care facility. If a
concession is provided, it shall contribute significantly to the economic feasibility of the
construction of the qualified child care facility.
3. An additional density bonus may not be granted which causes the total
density bonuses for the project to collectively exceed 35 percent. The City shall not be
obligated to grant the additional density bonus or provide an additional concession if it finds,
pursuant to Government Code Section 65915( i), that the City has adequate child care facilities.
4. A regulatory agreement shall be recorded against any property receiving
a density bonus by requiring the operation of the qualified day care facility for a period equal or
exceeding the affordability period. The agreement shall be recorded at the earliest time
possible, but in all events, prior to issuing a building permit, or in the case of subdivisions, prior
to approving a final map.
B. Projects with Qualifying Land Dedications.
1. A project that qualifies for a density bonus pursuant to Section
18. 90.030(A)( 1) through ( A)(4) can receive a supplemental density bonus by providing a
qualifying land dedication. The amount of the supplemental density bonus shall be determined
in accordance with Government Code Section 65915( h), provided that the aggregate density
bonus shall not exceed 35 percent.
2. A regulatory agreement shall be recorded against any property receiving
a supplemental density bonus or which will be used to provide affordable housing. The
agreement shall be recorded at the earliest time possible, but in all events, prior to issuing a
building permit, or in the case of subdivisions, prior to approving a final map.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90.070 Application Process
A. General. The granting of a density bonus or concession pursuant to this chapter,
shall not be interpreted, in and of itself, to require an amendment of the General Plan, a specific
plan, a zoning ordinance, or the Development Code. Any application processed pursuant to this
chapter, shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission concurrently with any other
development approval, subject to appeal to the City Council.
B. Preliminary Application. Unless waived by the City Planner or designee, a
preliminary application shall be submitted prior to the submittal of any formal development
18. 90 (7) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
application for a housing project that includes a request for a density bonus and/ or a
concession. The preliminary application should include the following information:
1. A brief description of the proposal including the total number of units prior
to the grant of a density bonus, the number of density bonus units, and the number of affordable
units.
2. The zoning and General Plan designations and assessors parcel
number(s) for the project site.
3. A site plan, drawn to scale, which includes building footprints, driveway
and parking layout, existing topographic contours, and proposed grading.
4. A letter identifying what specific density bonus, and/ or concessions are
being requested and the basis on which the project qualifies for a density bonus.
5. The City Planner shall provide to an applicant/developer, a letter that
identifies project issues of concern and the procedures for compliance with this chapter.
Prior to submission of the formal application, the applicant shall discuss the
preliminary application with the City Planner or his designee, unless the requirement is waived.
At the meeting, the applicant and City Planner shall discuss how the proposed project can be
designed ( including any requested concessions) to promote the objectives of this chapter while
also serving the interests of the immediately surrounding community.
C. Formal Application. A density bonus application shall be processed and heard
concurrently with applications for the project's other required entitlements.
1. The following information shall be included with the development
application( s) required for the project:
a. A legal description of the total site proposed for development of
the affordable units including a statement of present ownership and present and proposed
zoning.
b. A letter signed by the applicant stating the specific density bonus,
incentives, or concessions ( e. g., standards modifications, additional density bonus, or fee
waiver, etc.) are being requested from the City.
C. A detailed vicinity map showing the project location and such
details as the location of the nearest commercial retail, transit stop, potential employment
locations, park or recreation facilities or other social or community service facilities.
d. Site plans, designating the total number of units proposed on the
site, including the number and location of affordable and density bonus dwelling units, and
supporting plans per the application submittal requirements.
e. In the case of a request for a waiver or concession, a pro forma
for the proposed project showing that the concession is necessary to make the housing units
economically feasible, and evidence that the development standard if not waived or reduced will
have the effect of precluding the construction of the development at the density bonus densities
or with the concessions or incentives permitted by this chapter). If the City Planner determines
that additional information or special skill is required to review, assess, or verify the developer's
financial data and calculations, the City Planner may request the City Manager to engage an
outside consultant, at the applicant' s expense, to perform that required review, assessment, or
verification.
f. Such other information as may be reasonably required by the City
to evaluate the application, including additional requirements that are needed to evaluate
projects offering qualifying land dedications.
g. The cost of any financial review of an application, including pro
formas, estimated construction costs, shall be subject to reimbursement or advance payment by
the applicant.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
18. 90 (8) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 90.080 Decision; Findings; Conditions
A. Action on Density Bonus. If the required entitlements for the housing project are
approved, the density bonus shall also be approved.
B. Action on Concessions. If the required entitlements for the housing project are
approved, the requested concessions shall also be approved unless one of the following
findings is made: ( 1) the concession is not required in order to provide density bonus units at an
affordable rent or an affordable housing cost, as applicable; ( 2) the concession would have a
specific adverse impact on the public health and safety or the physical environment or on any
real property that is listed in the California Register of Historical Resources; or ( 3) the
concession would be contrary to state or federal law.
C. Conditions. Any density bonus application approved under this chapter shall
include all conditions which are determined to be useful or helpful in promoting the goals and
purposes of state law, this chapter and the density bonus regulations.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90.090 Fees and Cost Reimbursements
A. Application Fees. The City Council may establish by resolution, fees to be paid
by the applicant to defray the City' s cost of reviewing density bonus applications and preparing
density bonus housing agreements.
B. Cost Reimbursements. The City may charge fees to recover any and all costs
associated with administering the programs required by this chapter and in performing the
functions associated with regulatory agreements. This includes: ( 1) recovering from the
applicant ( by advance or reimbursement) the cost of engaging financial or other consultants to
review pro formas submitted by an applicant as part of an application review or to evaluate
construction costs estimated by the applicant; (2) the costs of reviewing reports and monitoring
projects with affordable rental units, child care facilities, or qualifying land dedications; ( 3) the
cost of reviewing documents associated with the sale of affordable units and taking related
actions; and ( 4) reimbursement, pursuant to Government Code Section 65915.5, of the City' s
reasonably necessary administrative costs relating to condominium conversions.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
Section 18. 90. 100 Regulations; Parking; Interpretation; Enforcement
A. Density Bonus Regulations. The City Manager shall prepare rules and
procedures to implement and explain the operation of this chapter.
B. Inclusionary Housing Program. Except to the extent otherwise required by
applicable law, affordable units that qualify a development for a density bonus are in addition to,
and do not count toward satisfying any obligation under the City' s inclusionary housing program.
C. Parking. Upon written submissions seeking relaxed parking requirements prior to
the time the application for is deemed or declared complete, the City shall not require parking
that exceeds the requirements of Section 65915( p). If the number of required parking spaces
pursuant to Section 65915( p) is other than a whole number, the number shall be rounded up to
the next whole number.
D. Automatic Incorporation of State Law Amendments. This chapter implements
Government Code Sections 65915-65918. In the event that these sections are amended, those
amended provisions shall be incorporated into this chapter. Should any inconsistencies exist
between the amended state law and the provisions set forth herein, state law shall prevail. Until
the code is formally amended to eliminate any such inconsistencies, the City Planner shall
18. 90 (9) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
maintain an explanation of all such amendments which shall be distributed with on as part of the
density bonus regulations.
E. Interpretation. This chapter and the density bonus regulations are to be
construed and applied by the City staff and City officers in a manner that avoid conflicts with
other applicable laws, including state law. No provision of this chapter or the density bonus
regulations shall be applied if it would result in a violation of state or federal law. Further, no
provision of the regulations shall be applied in a manner that conflicts with the lawful provisions
of this chapter.
F. Enforcement. The City may institute any appropriate legal actions or
proceedings necessary to ensure compliance herewith, including, but not limited to, actions to
revoke, deny, or suspend any permit or development approval.
Ord. No. 2009- 16, Enacted, 8/ 11/ 09)
18. 90 ( 10) Vista 11/ 24/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.92
New and Substantially Changed
Wireless Communication Facilities
Sections:
18. 92.010 Legislative Intent
18. 92.020 Definitions
18. 92.030 Applicability
18. 92.040 Permits Required
18. 92.050 Permit Applications
18. 92.060 Decisions
18. 92.070 Site Location Guidelines
18. 92.080 Design Standards
18. 92.090 Standard Conditions of Approval
18. 92. 100 Amortization of Nonconforming Wireless Facilities
18. 92. 110 Temporary Wireless Facilities
18. 92. 120 Compliance Obligations
Section 18. 92.010 Legislative Intent
A. The City of Vista intends this Chapter to establish reasonable and uniform
standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, construction, installation, collocation,
modification, operation, relocation and removal within the City' s territorial boundaries, consistent
with and to the extent permitted under federal and California state law. The standards and
procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should be applied to, protect and
promote public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that flow from robust,
advanced wireless services with the City' s local values, which include without limitation the
aesthetic character of the City, its neighborhoods and community.
B. This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: ( 1) prohibit
or effectively prohibit any personal wireless service provider' s ability to provide personal wireless
services; (2) prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity' s ability to provide any interstate or intrastate
telecommunications service, subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules or
regulation for rights- of-way management; (3) unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent services; ( 4) deny any request for authorization to place, construct or
modify personal wireless service facilities on the basis of environmental effects of radio frequency
emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal Communication Commission' s
regulations concerning such emissions; ( 5) prohibit any collocation or modification that the City
may not deny under federal or California state law; or (6) otherwise authorize the City to preempt
any applicable federal or California state law.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.020 Definitions
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words in this Chapter will have the meanings
assigned to them in this Section 18. 92. 020 or, as may be appropriate, in Chapter 18. 02 ( Purpose,
Interpretation and Definitions), as may be amended from time to time, unless context indicates
otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this section will have the meanings assigned to
them in 47 U. S. C.  702, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will
have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or
18. 92 ( 1) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
word in this section conflicts with any federal or state- mandated definition, the federal or statemandated
definition will control.
Approval Authority" means the commission, board or official responsible for review of
permit applications and vested with the authority to approve or deny such applications. The
approval authority for a project which requires a minor use permit or administrative temporary use
permit refers to the Zoning Administrator. The approval authority for a project which requires a
special use permit refers to the Planning Commission.
Base Station" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1), as
may be amended, which defines that term as a structure or equipment at a fixed location that
enables FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 9) or any equipment associated with a tower. The term includes, but is not limited to,
equipment associated with wireless communications services such as private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such
as microwave backhaul. The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas,
coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration ( including distributed antenna systems and small- cell
networks). The term includes any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the State or local government under this section, supports or houses
equipment described in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1)( i)-( ii) that has been reviewed and approved
under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory review
process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing such
support. The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant application is filed
with the State or local government under this section, does not support or house equipment
described in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1)( i)-( ii).
Collocation" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 2), as
may be amended, which defines that term as the mounting or installation of transmission
equipment on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/ or receiving radio
frequency signals for communications purposes. As an illustration and not a limitation, the FCC' s
definition effectively means " to add" and does not necessarily refer to more than one wireless
facility installed at a single site.
Completely Stealth" means concealment techniques that completely screen all
transmission equipment from public view and integrate the transmission equipment with the
surrounding natural and/ or built environment such that, given the particular context, the average,
untrained observer does not recognize the existence of the wireless facility and concealment
technique. Stealth concealment techniques include, but are not limited to: ( 1) transmission
equipment placed completely within existing architectural features such that the installation
causes no visible change to the underlying structure and ( 2) new architectural features that mimic
the underlying building in architectural style, physical proportion and quality of construction
materials. Architectural features commonly used as stealth concealment include, but are not
limited to, church steeples, cupolas, bell towers, clock towers, pitched faux- roofs, water tanks and
flagpoles. Further, whether a wireless facility qualifies as a stealth facility depends on the context
that exists at a given location and is evaluated on a case- by-case basis.
CPCN" means a " Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity" granted by the CPUC
or its duly appointed successor agency pursuant to California Public Utilities Code  1001 et
seq., as may be amended.
CPUC" means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California
Constitution, Article XII,  5, or it' s duly appointed successor agency.
FAA" means the Federal Aviation Administration or its duly appointed successor agency.
FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor
agency.
18. 92 ( 2) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
OTARD" means any over-the-air reception device subject to 47 C. F. R.  1. 4000 et seq.,
as may be amended, and which includes satellite television dishes not greater than one meter in
diameter.
Personal Wireless Services" means the same as defined in 47 U. S. C.  332( c)( 7)( C)( i),
as may be amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
Personal Wireless Service Facilities" means the same as defined in 47 U. S. C. 
332( c)( 7)( C)( i), as may be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal
wireless services.
RF" means radio frequency.
Section 6409" means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation
Act, Pub. L. No. 112- 96, 126 Stat. 156 ( Feb. 22, 2012), codified as 47 U. S. C.  1455( a), as may
be amended or superseded.
Temporary Wireless Facilities" means portable wireless facilities intended or used to
provide personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis, such as a large- scale
special event in which more users than usual gather in a confined location or when a disaster
disables permanent wireless facilities. Temporary wireless facilities include, without limitation,
cells-on- wheels (" COWs"), sites-on- wheels (" SOWs"), cells- on- light-trucks (" COLTs") or other
similarly portable wireless facilities not permanently affixed to site on which is located.
Tower" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 9), as may be
amended, which defines that term as any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any FCC- licensed or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including
structures that are constructed for wireless communications services including, but not limited to,
private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site. Examples include, but
are not limited to, monopoles, mono-trees and lattice towers.
Transmission Equipment" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 8), as may be amended, which defines that term as equipment that facilitates
transmission for any FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but
not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and regular and backup
power supply. The term includes equipment associated with wireless communications services
including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
Wireless" means any FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communication service
transmitted over frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.030 Applicability
A. Applicable Wireless facilities. This Chapter applies to all existing wireless facilities
within the City and all applications and requests for approval to construct, install, modify, collocate,
relocate or otherwise deploy wireless facilities in the City, whether located or proposed to be
located on private property or in the public right- of-way, unless exempted pursuant to Section
18. 92. 030( b), governed under Chapter 18. 94 pursuant to Section 18. 92. 030(c) or governed under
City Council Policy No. 300- 14 pursuant to Section 18. 92. 030( d).
B. Exempt Wireless facilities. Notwithstanding Section 18. 92. 030( a), the provisions in
this Chapter will not be applicable to: ( 1) wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for
public purposes; (2) wireless facilities installed on City property in the public right-of-way pursuant
to a valid master license agreement with the City; ( 3) amateur radio facilities; (4) OTARD
antennas; ( 5) wireless facilities installed completely indoors and intended to extend signals for
personal wireless services in a personal residence or a business ( such as a femtocell or indoor
18. 92 ( 3) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
distributed antenna system); and ( 6) wireless facilities or equipment owned and operated by
CPUC- regulated electric companies for use in connection with electrical power generation,
transmission and distribution facilities subject to CPUC General Order 131- D.
C. Requests for Approval Pursuant to Section 6409. All requests for approval
submitted pursuant to Section 6409 will be first evaluated pursuant to the provisions in Chapter
18. 94.
D. Special Provisions for Small Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Chapter as provided herein, all small wireless facilities as defined by the FCC in
47 C. F. R.  1. 6002( 1), as may be amended or superseded, are subject to a permit as specified in
City Council Policy No. 300- 14, which is adopted and may be amended by City Council resolution.
All small wireless facilities shall comply with City Council Policy No. 300- 14. If City Council Policy
No. 300- 14 is repealed, an application for a small wireless facility shall be processed pursuant to
this Chapter.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17; Ord. No 2018- 17, Amended, 12/ 11/ 18)
Section 18. 92.040 Permits Required
A. Minor Use Permit. A minor use permit, subject to the Zoning Administrator's prior
review and approval in accordance with Chapter 18. 66 ( Minor Use Permits), is required for new
wireless facilities and substantial changes to existing wireless facilities that:
1. Are or will be in preferred locations as defined in Section 18. 92. 080(a) and
do not require an exemption pursuant to Section 18. 92. 060( d);
2. Are or will be in any location and are completely stealth.
B. Special Use Permit. A special use permit, subject to the Planning Commission' s
prior review and approval in accordance with Chapter 18. 74 (Variance and Special Use Permits),
is required for:
1. All wireless facilities in discouraged locations as defined in Section
18. 92. 080( b);
2. All wireless facilities on private property within 500 feet from a residence,
except for completely stealth facilities subject to a minor use permit pursuant to Section
18. 92. 040( x)( 2);
3. All unconcealed wireless facilities in any zone; and
4. All wireless facilities that require an exemption pursuant to Section
18. 92. 060( d).
C. Administrative Temporary Use Permit. An administrative temporary use permit,
subject to the Zoning Administrator' s prior review and approval in accordance with the procedures
and standards in Section 18. 92. 110 is required for any temporary wireless facility, unless
deployed in connection with an emergency pursuant to Section 18. 92. 110( b).
D. Other Permits and Regulatory Approvals. In addition to any special use permit,
minor use permit or other permit required under this Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other
required prior permits and other regulatory approvals from other City departments, and state and
federal agencies. Any special use permit, minor use permit or other permit granted under this
Chapter will be subject to the conditions and/ or other requirements in any other required prior
permits or other regulatory approvals from other City departments, and state and federal
agencies.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.050 Permit Applications
A. Application Requirement. The City shall not approve any wireless facility subject
to a minor use permit or special use permit except upon a duly filed application consistent with
18. 92 ( 4) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
this Section 18. 92. 050 and any other written rules the Zoning Administrator may publish in any
publicly-stated format.
B. Minimum Application Content. The materials required under this Section are
minimum requirements for any application for a special use permit or minor use permit in
connection with a wireless facility:
1. Master Application and Applicable Fee. The applicant must provide the
applicable special use permit or minor use permit application form with the applicable application
fee.
2. Owner's Authorization and Title Report. For facilities proposed or located
on private property, the applicant must provide a title report prepared within the six months prior
to the application filing date in order for the City to verify the property owner's identity. No title
report is required for facilities proposed or located in the public rights- of-way. If the applicant does
not own the subject property or support structure in the public rights- of-way, the application must
include a written authorization signed by the property owner that empowers the applicant to file
the application and perform all wireless facility construction, installation, operation and
maintenance to the extent described in the application.
3. Regulatory Authorizations. To the extent that the applicant claims any
regulatory authorization or other right to use the public rights- of-way, such as a CPCN, the
applicant must provide a true and correct copy of the certificate, license, notice to proceed or
other regulatory authorization that supports the applicant' s claim.
4. Project Plans. A fully dimensioned site plan and elevation drawings
prepared and sealed by a California- licensed engineer showing any existing wireless facilities
with all existing transmission equipment and other improvements, the proposed wireless facility
with all proposed transmission equipment and other improvements and the legal boundaries of
the leased or owned area surrounding the proposed wireless facility and any associated access
or utility easements. The plans must contain all other elements and details required for site plans
submitted with a special use permit application.
5. Site Photos and Photo Simulations. Photographs and photo simulations
that show the proposed wireless facility in context of the site from reasonable line- of-sight
locations from public streets or other adjacent viewpoints, together with a map that shows the
photo location of each view angle.
6. RF Compliance Demonstration. An RF exposure compliance report
prepared and certified by an RF engineer acceptable to the City that certifies that the proposed
wireless facility, as well as any collocated wireless facilities, will comply with applicable federal
RF exposure standards and exposure limits. The RF report must include the actual frequency and
power levels ( in watts effective radiated power ( ERP)) for all existing and proposed antennas at
the site and exhibits that show the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas and the
boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess of the uncontrolled/ general population limit (as
that term is defined by the FCC) and also the boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess
of the controlled/ occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). Each such boundary shall
be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site.
7. Acoustic Analysis. A written report that analyzes acoustic levels for the
proposed wireless facility and all associated equipment including without limitation all
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent
backup power generators in order to demonstrate compliance with Chapter 8. 32 ( Noise Control).
The acoustic analysis must be prepared and certified by an engineer and include an analysis of
the manufacturers' specifications for all noise- emitting equipment and a depiction of the proposed
equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a written report, the applicant may
submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the
proposed equipment will not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits.
18. 92 ( 5) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
8. Project Purpose Statement. A written statement that includes: ( a) a
description of the technical objectives to be achieved; ( b) an annotated topographical map that
identifies the targeted service area to be benefitted; ( c) the estimated number of potentially
affected users in the targeted service area; and ( d) full- color signal propagation maps with
objective units of signal strength measurement that show the applicant' s current service coverage
levels from all adjacent sites without the proposed site, predicted service coverage levels from all
adjacent sites with the proposed site, and predicted service coverage levels from the proposed
site without all adjacent sites.
9. Alternatives Analysis. The applicant must list all existing structures
considered as alternatives to the proposed location, together with a general description of the site
design considered at each location. The applicant must also provide a written explanation for why
the alternatives considered were unacceptable or infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with
the development standards in this Chapter as the proposed location and design. This explanation
must include a meaningful comparative analysis and such technical information and other factual
justification as are necessary to document the reasons why each alternative is unacceptable,
infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the development standards in this Chapter as the
proposed location. If an existing wireless facility is listed among the alternatives, the applicant
must specifically address why the collocation or modification of such wireless facility is not a viable
option. If the proposed location is in the public right-of-way, the applicant may perform the
alternatives sites analysis on other locations that it considered in the public right- of-way.
C. Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. The City shall not review any application
unless duly filed in accordance with the provisions in this Section 18. 92. 050( c).
1. Pre- Submittal Conference. Before application submittal, applicants must
schedule and attend a pre- submittal conference with City staff for all proposed wireless facilities
that require a special use permit. The City strongly encourages, but does not require, a presubmittal
conference for all other proposed wireless facilities. The pre- submittal conference is
intended to streamline the review process through informal discussion that includes, without
limitation, the appropriate project classification and permit requirements, concealment
opportunities and/ or concerns, potential alternative sites and/ or designs, requirements for a
complete application, scheduling matters and coordination with other City departments
responsible for application review. To minimize unnecessary delays due to application
incompleteness, applicants are encouraged ( but not required) to bring any draft applications or
other materials so that City staff may provide informal feedback about whether such applications
or other materials may be incomplete or unacceptable. The Zoning Administrator may, in the
Zoning Administrator' s discretion, grant a written exemption to the submittal appointment under
Section 18. 92. 050( c)( 2) and/ or for a specific requirement for a complete application to any
applicant who ( i) schedules, attends and fully participates in any pre- submittal conference and ( ii)
shows to the Zoning Administrator' s satisfaction that such specific requirement duplicates
information already provided in other materials to be submitted or is otherwise unnecessary to
the City' s review under facts and circumstances in that particular case. Any written exemption will
be limited to the project discussed at the pre-submittal conference and will not be extended to any
other project.
2. Submittal Appointment. All applications must be filed with the City at a prescheduled
appointment. Applicants may generally submit one application per appointment, but
may schedule successive appointments for multiple applications whenever feasible and not
prejudicial to other applicants. Any application received without an appointment, whether
delivered in- person or through any other means, will not be considered duly filed unless the
applicant received a written exemption from the Zoning Administrator at a pre- submittal
conference.
3. Appointment Scheduling Procedures. For any event in the submittal
process that requires an appointment, applicants must submit a written request to the Zoning
18. 92 ( 6) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall endeavor to provide applicants with an appointment
as soon as reasonably feasible and within five business days after a written request is received.
D. Applications Deemed Withdrawn. To promote efficient review and timely decisions,
an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails
to tender a substantive response to the City within 90 calendar days after the City deems the
application incomplete in a written notice to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator may, in the
Zoning Administrator' s discretion, grant a written extension for up to an additional 30 calendar
days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 90th day that shows good cause to
grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant' s reasonable control will
be considered good cause to grant the extension.
E. Departmental Forms, Rules and Other Regulations. The City Council authorizes
the Zoning Administrator to develop and publish permit application forms, checklists, informational
handouts and other related materials for this Chapter. Without further authorization from the City
Council, the Zoning Administrator may from time-to- time update and alter the permit application
forms, checklists, informational handouts and other related materials as the Zoning Administrator
deems necessary or appropriate to respond to regulatory, technological or other changes related
to this Chapter. The City Council further authorizes the Zoning Administrator to establish other
reasonable rules and regulations, which may include without limitation regular hours for
appointments with applicants, as the Zoning Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to
organize, document and manage the application intake process. All such rules and regulations
must be in written form and publicly stated to provide applicants with prior notice.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.060 Decisions
A. Notice.
1. General Notice Required for the Application. Public notice as provided in
Section 18. 74. 140 ( Special Use Permit  Notice of Hearing) will be required for any special use
permit. Public notice as provided in Section 18. 66. 030 ( Minor Use Permits  Procedure) will be
required for any minor use permit. The approval authority shall not act on any application for a
wireless facility unless the public notice required by law has occurred.
2. Deemed-Approval Notice Procedures. Not more than 30 days before the
applicable FCC timeframe for review expires, and in addition to the public notice required in
Section 18. 92. 060(A)( 1), above, an applicant for a special use permit or minor use permit must
provide a posted notice at the project site that states the project will be automatically deemed
approved pursuant to California Government Code  65964. 1 unless the City approves or denies
the application or the applicant tolls the timeframe for review within the next 30 days. The posted
notice must be compliant with the provisions in Section 18. 04. 070 ( Required Wording and Size of
Notices). The public notice required under this Section 18. 92. 060(A)( 2) will be deemed given
when the applicant delivers written notice to the Zoning Administrator that shows the appropriate
notice has been posted at the project site.
3. Decision Notices. Within five working days after the approval authority
approves, conditionally approves or denies an application for a wireless facility or before the FCC
timeframe for review expires ( whichever occurs first), the approval authority shall send a written
notice to the applicant and all other parties entitled to receive notice. For any denial notice, the
approval authority shall include the reasons for the denial either in the notice or as a separate
written document.
B. Required Findings for Approval. The approval authority may approve or
conditionally approve a duly filed application for a special use permit or minor use permit only
when the approval authority finds:
18. 92 ( 7) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
1. the proposed wireless facility complies with all the findings required for a
special use permit or minor use permit in accordance with Section 18. 74. 120 ( Special Use Permit
When Permitted);
2. the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable development
standards described in Section 18. 92. 080;
3. the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in
compliance with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions;
4. the applicant has demonstrated a good- faith effort to identify and evaluate
more- preferred locations and potentially less- intrusive designs; and
5. the applicant has provided the approval authority with a meaningful
comparative analysis that shows all less- intrusive alternative locations and designs identified in
the administrative record are either technically infeasible or not potentially available.
C. Conditional Approvals. The approval authority may impose any reasonable
conditions on any special use permit or minor use permit, related and proportionate to the subject
matter in the application, as the approval authority deems necessary or appropriate to promote
and ensure conformance with the General Plan, any applicable specific plan and all applicable
provisions in the Vista Development Code.
D. Limited Exception for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. The Planning
Commission shall not grant any limited exception, to the site location guidelines in Section
18. 92. 070 or the development standards in Section 18. 92. 080, pursuant to this Section
18. 92. 060( d) unless the Planning Commission finds all the following:
1. the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a " personal wireless service
facility" as defined in 47 U. S. C.  332( c)( 7)( C)( ii), as may be amended or superseded;
2. the applicant has provided the Planning Commission with a reasonable and
clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility;
3. the applicant has provided the Planning Commission with a written
statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless
facility cannot be deployed in compliance with the applicable provisions in this Chapter, the Vista
Development Code, the general plan and/ or any specific plan;
4. the applicant has provided the Planning Commission with a meaningful
comparative analysis with the factual reasons why all alternative locations and/ or designs
identified in the administrative record ( whether suggested by the applicant, the City, public
comments or any other source) are not technically feasible or potentially available to reasonably
achieve the applicant' s reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved
by the proposed wireless facility; and
5. the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed location and design is
the least non- compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the applicant' s reasonable and
clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility, which
includes without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive
wireless facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.
E. Appeals. Any person or entity may appeal a decision by the approval authority in
accordance with the standards and procedures in Section 18. 04. 150 ( Appeals), except as
modified in this Section 18. 92. 060( e). On the next available meeting date after the appeal period
lapses, or as soon as reasonably feasible thereafter, the appellate body shall hold a de novo
public hearing to consider and act on the application in accordance with the applicable provisions
in the General Plan, any applicable specific plan and all applicable provisions in the Vista
Development Code. Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal
is based on environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC
regulations.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
18. 92 ( 8) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 92.070 Site Location Guidelines
A. Preferred Locations. All applicants must, to the extent feasible, propose new
wireless facilities in locations according to the following preferences, ordered from most preferred
to least preferred. Wireless facilities proposed to be sited in the following locations may be eligible
for a minor use permit.
1. City-owned structures in the public rights- of-way;
2. existing support structures in the public rights- of-way;
3. City-owned property;
4. parcels within the Vista Business Park Specific Plan, Area B;
5. parcels within industrial zones; and
6. parcels within commercial zones;
B. Discouraged Locations. The City discourages new wireless facilities in the
following locations, ordered from most discouraged to least discouraged, and the approval
authority will take into account whether any less discouraged ( or more preferred) locations are
technically feasible and potentially available. Furthermore, any wireless facility proposed to be
sited in the following discouraged locations will require a special use permit:
1. all Single- Family Residential zones (which includes, without limitation, OSR,
A- 1, E- 1, R- 1 and R- 1- 13);
2. all properties within any Biological Preserve Overlay as defined in the
General Plan;
3. all parcels designated as Open Space in the General Plan;
4. all parcels within the Historic Downtown Planning District;
5. all parcels within the Downtown Specific Plan area; and
6. all other locations not identified as " preferred" in section 18. 92. 070( b).
C. Preferred Support Structures. In addition to the preferred locations described in
Section 18. 92. 070(a), the City also expresses its preference for installations on certain support
structures. The approval authority will take into account whether any less discouraged ( or more
preferred) support structures are technically feasible and potentially available. The City' s
preferred support structures are as follows, ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
1. collocations with existing building- mounted wireless facilities;
2. collocations with existing wireless facilities on electric transmission towers;
3. collocations with existing freestanding wireless facilities;
4. new installations on existing buildings;
5. new installations on existing electric transmission towers;
6. new freestanding wireless towers;
7. reserved]
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.080 Design Standards
A. Generally Applicable Development Standards. All new wireless facilities and all
collocations or modifications to existing wireless facilities not subject to Section 6409 must
conform to the generally applicable development standards in this Section 18. 92. 080(a).
1. Concealment. Wireless facilities must incorporate concealment elements,
measures and techniques that blend the equipment and other improvements into the natural
and/ or built environment in a manner consistent and/ or compatible with the uses germane to the
underlying zoning district and existing in the immediate vicinity.
2. Overall Height. Wireless facilities may not exceed the applicable height limit
for structures in the applicable zoning district.
18. 92 ( 9) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
3. Setbacks. Wireless facilities may not encroach into any applicable setback
for structures in the subject zoning district.
4. Noise. Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission
equipment must comply with all noise regulations, which includes without limitation Chapter 8. 32
Noise Control), and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the applicable ambient
noise limit in the subject zoning district. The approval authority may require the applicant to
incorporate appropriate noise- baffling materials and/ or strategies whenever necessary to avoid
any ambient noise from equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable limit.
5. Landscaping. Wireless facilities must include landscape features when
proposed in a landscaped area. The approval authority may require additional landscape features
to screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on
adjacent properties or otherwise enhance the concealment required under this Chapter.
6. Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and
appropriate security measures, such as fences, walls and anti- climbing devices, to prevent
unauthorized access, theft and vandalism. Security measures must be designed to enhance
concealment to the maximum extent possible. The approval authority may require additional
concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security measures
and other improvements into the natural and/ or built environment. The approval authority shall
not approve barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures.
7. Backup Power Sources. The approval authority may approve permanent
backup power sources and/ or generators on a case- by-case basis. All backup power sources
and/ or generators must be compliant with all generally applicable rules and regulations for public
health and safety, and the approval authority may require conditions reasonably necessary or
appropriate to ensure such compliance. The City strongly disfavors backup power sources
mounted on the ground or on poles in the public rights-of-way.
8. Lights. Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than ( i) as
may be required under FAA, FCC or other applicable governmental regulations; and ( ii) timed or
motion- sensitive lights for security and/ or worker safety. All exterior lights permitted or required to
be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures that avoids illumination impacts
on other properties to the maximum extent feasible.
9. Signage; Advertisements. All wireless facilities must include signage that
accurately identifies the equipment owner/operator, the owner/operator' s site name or
identification number and a toll- free number to the owner/operator's network operations center.
Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage or advertisements unless expressly approved
by the City, required by law or recommended under FCC or other United States governmental
agencies for compliance with RF emissions regulations.
10. Future Collocations. All wireless facilities must be designed and sited in a
manner that contemplates future collocations, and will facilitate additional equipment to be
integrated into the proposed wireless facility or associated structures with no or negligible visual
changes to its outward appearance to the greatest extent feasible.
11. Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other
similar utility services must be routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough
to accommodate future collocated wireless facilities. The approval authority shall not approve new
overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the undergrounding
requirements would increase the project cost.
12. Compliance with Laws. All wireless facilities must be designed and sited in
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, restrictions and
conditions, which includes without limitation the California Building Standards Code, General Plan
and any specific plan, the Vista Development Code and any conditions or restrictions in any permit
or other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project.
B. Freestanding Wireless facilities.
18. 92 ( 10) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
1. Tower-Mounted Equipment. All tower-mounted equipment must be
mounted as close to the vertical support structure as possible to reduce its visual profile.
Applicants must mount non- antenna, tower-mounted equipment ( including, but not limited to,
remote radio units/ heads, surge suppressors and utility demarcation boxes) directly behind the
antennas to the maximum extent feasible. All tower-mounted equipment, cables and hardware
must be painted with flat colors subject to the approval authority' s prior approval.
2. Ground- Mounted Equipment and Shelters. All ground- mounted equipment
must be concealed within an existing or new structure, opaque fences or other enclosures subject
to the approval authority' s prior approval. The approval authority may require additional
concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the ground- mounted
equipment and other improvements into the natural and/ or built environment.
C. Building- Mounted Wireless facilities.
1. Preferred Concealment Techniques. All applicants should, to the extent
feasible, propose new non- tower wireless facilities that are completely concealed and
architecturally integrated into the existing facade or rooftop features with no visible impacts from
any publicly accessible areas at ground level ( examples include, but are not limited to, antennas
behind existing parapet walls or facades replaced with RF- transparent material and finished to
mimic the replaced materials). Alternatively, when integration with existing building features is not
feasible, the applicant should propose completely concealed new structures or appurtenances
designed to mimic the support structure' s original architecture and proportions (examples include,
but are not limited to, cupolas, steeples, chimneys and water tanks). Facilities must be located
behind existing parapet walls or other existing screening elements to the maximum extent
feasible.
2. Facade- Mounted Equipment. When wireless facilities cannot be placed
behind existing parapet walls or other existing screening elements, the approval authority may
approve facade- mounted equipment in accordance with this section. All facade- mounted
equipment must be concealed behind screen walls and mounted as flush to the facade as
practicable. The approval authority may not approve "pop- out" screen boxes unless the design is
architecturally consistent with the original building or support structure. Except in industrial zones,
the approval authority may not approve any exposed facade- mounted antennas, including but not
limited to exposed antennas painted to match the facade.
3. Rooftop- Mounted Equipment. All rooftop- mounted equipment must be
screened from public view with concealment measures that match the underlying structure in
proportion, quality, architectural style and finish. The approval authority may approve unscreened
rooftop equipment only when it expressly finds that such equipment is effectively concealed due
to its low height and/ or setback from the roofline.
4. Associated Ground- Mounted Equipment. Outdoor ground- mounted
equipment associated with building- mounted wireless facilities must be avoided whenever
feasible. In publicly visible or accessible locations, applicants must conceal outdoor groundmounted
equipment with opaque fences or landscape features that mimic the adjacent
structure( s) such as dumpster corrals and other accessory structures.
D. Right-of-Way Wireless Facilities.
1. Concealment. All wireless facilities in the right- of-way must be concealed
to the maximum extent feasible with design elements and techniques that mimic or blend with the
underlying support structure, surrounding environment and adjacent uses. Such concealment
techniques may include, without limitation, placing equipment underground or within landscaped
areas, painting or coloring the equipment, mounting the equipment behind existing street signage
or rotating the equipment away from prominent views, installing passively cooled equipment
rather than fan- cooled equipment, covering any solid or flashing indicator lights on the internal
components. In addition, wireless facilities in the rights-of-way may not unreasonably subject the
18. 92 ( 11) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
public use, for any purpose including expressive or aesthetic purposes, to inconvenience,
discomfort, trouble, annoyance, hindrance, impediment or obstruction.
2. Support Structures. All wireless facilities in the public right- of-way must be
installed on existing above- ground structures whenever possible and desirable. Existing aboveground
structures may be replaced with hardened support structures so long as the replacement
structure is substantially similar to the existing structure to be replaced. The approval authority
shall not approve any new, non- replacement support structures unless: ( i) the applicant
demonstrates that above-ground support structures near the project site either do not exist or are
not available to the applicant; or ( ii) the approval authority finds that a new, non- replacement
support structure would be more desirable and consistent with the objectives in this Chapter than
installations on existing structures near the project site.
3. Undergrounded Equipment. To conceal the non- antenna equipment,
applicants for a proposed wireless facility within any area in which the existing utilities are primarily
located underground shall underground all non- antenna equipment other than any required
electric meter or disconnect switch. In all other areas, applicants shall install all non- antenna
equipment underground to the extent feasible. Additional expense to install and maintain an
underground equipment enclosure does not exempt an applicant from this requirement, except
where the applicant demonstrates with evidence that this requirement will effectively prohibit the
provision of personal wireless services.
4. Pole- Mounted Equipment. All pole-mounted equipment must be installed
as close to the pole as technically and legally feasible to minimize impacts to the visual profile. All
required or permitted signage in the rights- of-way must face toward the street or otherwise placed
to minimize visibility from adjacent sidewalks and structures. All conduits, conduit attachments,
cables, wires and other connectors must be concealed from public view to the extent feasible.
5. Ground- Mounted Equipment. To the extent that the equipment cannot be
placed underground as required, applicants must install ground- mounted equipment in the
location so that it does not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The approval authority may
require landscaping as a condition of approval to conceal ground- mounted equipment.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92.090 Standard Conditions of Approval
In addition to all other conditions adopted by the approval authority, all special use permits
and minor use permits, whether approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this Section 18. 92. 090. The
approval authority shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case- by- case
basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to allow for the proper
operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals of this chapter.
A. Approved Plans. Before the permittee submits any applications to the Building
Division, the permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions associated with this permit and
the approved photo simulations into the project plans ( the " Approved Plans"). The permittee
must construct, install and operate the wireless facility in strict compliance with the Approved
Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested
by the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the
wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject to the Zoning Administrator' s prior
review and approval, who may refer the request to the original approval authority if the Zoning
Administrator finds that the requested alteration, modification or other change implicates a
significant or substantial land- use concern.
B. Permit Duration. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from
its issuance, except when California Government Code  65964( b), as may be amended or
superseded in the future, authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety or
18. 92 ( 12) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with any
collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which includes without limitation
any permits or other approvals deemed- granted or deemed- approved under federal or state law,
will not extend this term limit unless expressly provided otherwise in such permit or approval or
required under federal or state law.
C. Build- out Period. This permit will automatically expire one year from the issuance
date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and approvals required to install, construct
and/ or operate the approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits or
approvals required by any federal, state or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject
property, the wireless facility or its use. The Zoning Administrator may grant one written extension
to a date certain when the permittee shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written
request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to the automatic expiration date in this
condition.
D. Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which
includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes,
fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the
Approved Plans and all conditions in this permit. The permittee shall keep the site area free from
all litter and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and remediate
any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee receives notice or
otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred.
E. Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with
all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of law
Laws") applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any use or
activities in connection with the use authorized in this permit. The permittee expressly
acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly construed and that no
other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen
the permittee' s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws.
F. Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable
efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may
arise from the permittee' s construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair,
removal and/ or other activities at the site. The permittee shall not perform or cause others to
perform any construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or
other work that involves heavy equipment or machines on ( 1) any weekday or Saturday between
7 PM and 7 AM or ( 2) any Sunday or holiday. The restricted work hours in this condition will not
prohibit any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any
work during an emergency declared by the City. The Zoning Administrator or the Zoning
Administrator's designee may issue a stop work order for any work that violates this condition.
G. Noise Complaints. The permittee shall conduct all activities on the site in
compliance with the ambient noise standards in Chapter 8. 32 applicable to the zone in which the
site is situated. In the event that any person files a noise complaint and the City verifies that such
complaint is valid, the permittee must remedy the violation within 10 days after notice from the
City, which may include a demonstration that the permittee has amended its operational
guidelines in situations where the violation arises from the permittee' s personnel rather than the
permittee' s equipment.
H. Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that
the City or its designee may enter onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment
upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee; provided, however, that the City or its designee
may, but will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair,
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements
or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee will be
permitted to supervise the City or its designee while such inspection or emergency access occurs.
18. 92 ( 13) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
I. Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Planning Division with
accurate and up-to- date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility,
which includes without limitation such person' s full name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile
number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information
up-to- date at all times.
J. Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon which
the wireless facility is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, its agents,
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all ( 1) damages, liabilities, injuries,
losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other
actions or proceedings (" Claims") brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials,
employees or volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City' s
approval of this permit, and ( 2) other Claims any kind or form, whether for personal injury, death
or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee' s or its agents', directors',
officers', employees', contractors', subcontractors', licensees', or customers' acts or omissions in
connection with this permit or the wireless facility. In the event the City becomes aware of any
Claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the permittee and the private property
owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges
and agrees that the City shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, the legal counsel providing the City' s defense, and the property owner and/ or permittee
as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily
incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and
agrees that the permittee' s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material
consideration that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification
obligations will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit.
K. Performance Bond. Before the Building Official issues any construction permit in
connection with the wireless facility, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety
and in a form acceptable to the City Manager and the City Attorney in an amount equal to or
greater than a written estimate from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities
removal. The written estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other
improvements, which includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators,
utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters,
towers, poles, footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or
installed in connection with the wireless facility. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount
required under this condition, and in accordance with California Government Code  65964(a),
the City Manager shall take into consideration information provided by the permittee regarding
the cost to remove the wireless facility.
L. Recall to the Approval Authority. The original approval authority may recall this
permit for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with the Vista Development
Code or any approval conditions. At a duly noticed public hearing and in accordance with all
applicable laws, the approval authority may revoke this permit or amend these conditions as the
approval authority deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such noncompliance.
M. Record Retention. The permittee shall retain full and complete copies of all permits
and other regulatory approvals issued in connection with the wireless facility, which includes
without limitation all conditions of approval, approved plans, resolutions and other documentation
associated with the permit or regulatory approval. In the event that the City cannot locate any
such full and complete permits or other regulatory approvals in its official records, and the
permittee fails to retain full and complete permits or other regulatory approvals in the permittee' s
files, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an examination of the
missing documents will be conclusively resolved against the permittee.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
18. 92 ( 14) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 92. 100 Amortization of Nonconforming Wireless Facilities
Any non- conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time this Chapter becomes
effective must be brought into conformance with this Chapter in accordance with the amortization
schedule in this Section 18. 92. 100. As used in this section, the " fair market value" will be the
construction costs listed on the building permit application for the subject wireless facility and the
minimum years" allowed will be measured from the date on which this Chapter becomes
effective.
Fair Market Value on Effective Date Minimum Years Allowed
Less than $ 50, 000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
50, 000 to $ 500, 000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Greater than $ 500, 000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
The Zoning Administrator may grant a written extension to a date certain when the wireless
facility owner shows ( 1) a good faith effort to cure non- conformance; ( 2) the application of this
Section would violate applicable laws; or ( 3) extreme economic hardship would result from strict
compliance with the amortization schedule. Any extension must be the minimum time period
necessary to avoid such extreme economic hardship. The Zoning Administrator may not grant
any permanent exemption from this Section.
Nothing in this Section is intended to limit any permit term to less than 10 years. In the
event that the amortization required in this Section would reduce the permit term to less than 10
years for any permit granted on or after September 29, 2006, then the minimum years allowed
will be automatically extended by the difference between 10 years and the number of years since
the City granted such permit. Nothing in this Section is intended or may be applied to prohibit any
collocation or modification covered under 47 U. S. C.  1455(a) on the basis that the subject
wireless facility is a legal nonconforming wireless facility.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92. 110 Temporary Wireless Facilities
A. Temporary Wireless Facilities for Non- Emergencies.
1. Administrative Temporary Use Permit Applications. The Zoning
Administrator shall not approve any temporary wireless facility subject to an administrative
temporary use permit except upon a duly filed application consistent with this Section
18. 92. 110( a) and any other written rules the Zoning Administrator may publish in any publiclystated
format. Applicants for an administrative temporary use permit must submit, at a minimum:
1) an administrative temporary use permit application on the most current form prepared by the
Planning Division; ( 2) the applicable fee for the application; ( 3) a site plan that shows the proposed
temporary wireless facility and its equipment, physical dimensions and placement on the
proposed site relative to property lines and existing structures; ( 4) an RF compliance report in
accordance with Section 18. 92. 050( b)( 6) in this Chapter; and ( 5) an insurance certificate for
general commercial liability that names the City as an additional insured, includes coverage for
the time period in which the temporary wireless facility will be placed and carries at least
1, 000, 000 in coverage per occurrence. Applications must be submitted in person to the Zoning
Administrator. No pre- submittal conference or appointment is required for a temporary
administrative use permit application.
2. Administrative Review Procedures. After the Zoning Administrator receives
a duly filed application for an administrative temporary use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall
review the application for completeness. After the Zoning Administrator deems the application
complete, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application for conformance with the required
findings in Section 18. 92. 110( a)( 3) and render a written decision to the applicant. Any denials
18. 92 ( 15) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
must include the reasons for the denial. The review shall be administrative in nature and shall not
require notice or a public hearing. In the event that the Zoning Administrator denies an
administrative temporary use permit for a temporary wireless facility, the applicant may appeal to
the City Manager within 10 days. The City Manager shall consider the appeal de novo and the
City Manager's decision will be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
3. Required Findings. The Zoning Administrator may approve or conditionally
approve an administrative temporary use permit for a temporary wireless facility only when the
Zoning Administrator finds all the following:
a. The proposed temporary wireless facility will not exceed 50 feet in
overall height above ground level;
b. The proposed temporary wireless facility complies with all setback
requirements applicable to the proposed location;
C. The proposed temporary wireless facility will not involve any
excavation or ground disturbance;
d. The proposed temporary wireless facility will be compliant with all
generally applicable public health and safety laws and regulations, which includes without
limitation maximum permissible exposure limits for human exposure to RF emissions established
by the FCC;
e. The proposed temporary wireless facility will not create any
nuisance or violate any noise limits applicable to the proposed location;
f. The proposed temporary wireless facility will be identified with a
sign that clearly identifies the site operator and contains a working telephone number to a live
person who can exert power-down control over the antennas;
g. The proposed wireless temporary wireless facility will be removed
within five days after the Zoning Administrator grants the administrative temporary use permit, or
such longer time as the Zoning Administrator finds reasonably related to the applicant' s need or
purpose for the temporary wireless facility;
h. The applicant has not received any other administrative temporary
use permit for substantially the same location within the previous 90 days; and
i. The applicant has not sought approval for any permanent wireless
facility in substantially the same location within the previous 365 days.
B. Temporary Wireless Facilities for Emergencies. Temporary wireless facilities may
be placed and operated within the City without an administrative temporary use permit only when
a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official declares an emergency within a region that
includes the City in whole or in part. Any temporary wireless facilities placed pursuant to this
Section 18. 92. 110( b) must be removed within five days after the date the emergency is lifted
whichever occurs first). Any person or entity that places temporary wireless facilities pursuant to
this section must send a written notice that identifies the site location and person responsible for
its operation to the Zoning Administrator as soon as reasonably practicable.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 92. 120 Compliance Obligations
A. An applicant or permittee will not be relieved of its obligation to comply with every
applicable provision in the Vista Development Code, any permit, any permit condition or any
applicable law or regulation by reason of any failure by the City to timely notice, prompt or enforce
compliance by the applicant or permittee.
Ord. No. 2017- 6, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
18. 92 ( 16) Vista 1/ 10/ 19)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 18.94
Facilities Covered Under
Section 6409( a) of the Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012
Sections:
18. 94.010 Legislative Intent
18. 94.020 Definitions
18. 94.030 Applicability
18. 94.040 Approval Required
18. 94.050 Permit Applications
18. 94.060 Decisions
18. 94.070 Standard Conditions Of Approval
18. 94.080 Compliance Obligations
Section 18. 94.010 Legislative Intent
A. Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Pub.
L. 112- 96, codified in 47 U. S. C.  1455( a), generally requires that State and local governments
may not deny, and shall approve" requests to collocate, remove or replace transmission
equipment at an existing tower or base station. Federal Communication Commission regulations
interpret this statute and create procedural rules for local review, which generally preempt certain
subjective land- use regulations, limit permit application content requirements and provide the
applicant with a potential " deemed granted" remedy when the State or local government fails to
approve or deny the request within sixty ( 60) days after submittal ( accounting for any tolling
periods). Moreover, whereas Section 704 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104,
codified in 47 U. S. C.  332, applies to only " personal wireless service facilities" ( e. g., cellular
telephone towers and equipment), Section 6409(a) applies to all " wireless" facilities licensed or
authorized by the FCC ( e. g., cellular, Wi- Fi, satellite, microwave backhaul, etc.).
B. The City Council finds that the overlap between wireless deployments covered
under Section 6409(a) and other wireless deployments, combined with the different substantive
and procedural rules applicable to such deployments, creates a potential for confusion that harms
the public interest in both efficient wireless facilities deployment and carefully planned community
development in accordance with local values. The City Council further finds that a separate permit
application and review process specifically designed for compliance with Section 6409( a)
contained in a section devoted to Section 6409(a) will mitigate such potential confusion,
streamline local review and preserve the city's land- use authority to maximum extent possible.
C. The City of Vista intends this section to establish reasonable and uniform
standards and procedures in a manner that protects and promotes the public health, safety and
welfare, consistent with and subject to federal and California state law, for wireless facilities
collocations and modifications pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and
Job Creation Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112- 96, codified in 47 U. S. C.  1455(a), and related FCC
regulations codified in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001 et seq. This section is not intended to, nor shall it be
interpreted or applied to: ( 1) prohibit or effectively prohibit any personal wireless service provider's
ability to provide personal wireless services; ( 2) prohibit or effectively prohibit any entity' s ability
to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service, subject to any competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory rules or regulation for rights-of-way management; (3) unreasonably
discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services; (4) deny any request for
authorization to place, construct or modify personal wireless service facilities on the basis of
18. 94 ( l) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such wireless facilities
comply with the FCC' s regulations concerning such emissions; ( 5) prohibit any collocation or
modification that the City may not deny under federal or California state law; or ( 6) otherwise
authorize the City to preempt any applicable federal or California state law.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.020 Definitions
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words will have the meanings assigned to them in
this Section 18. 94. 020 or, as may be appropriate, in Chapter 18. 01 ( Purpose, Interpretation and
Definitions), as may be amended from time to time, unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined
phrases, terms or words in this section will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U. S. C. 
702, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary
meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in this section
conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated definition
will control.
Approval Authority" means the commission, board or official responsible for review of
permit applications and vested with the authority to approve or deny such applications. The
approval authority for a project which requires a Section 6409(a) approval refers to the Zoning
Administrator.
Base Station" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1), as
may be amended, which defines that term as a structure or equipment at a fixed location that
enables FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 9) or any equipment associated with a tower. The term includes, but is not limited to,
equipment associated with wireless communications services such as private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such
as microwave backhaul. The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas,
coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment,
regardless of technological configuration ( including distributed antenna systems and small- cell
networks). The term includes any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the State or local government under this section, supports or houses
equipment described in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1)( i)-( ii) that has been reviewed and approved
under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory review
process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing such
support. The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant application is filed
with the State or local government under this section, does not support or house equipment
described in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 1)( i)-( ii).
Collocation" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 2), as
may be amended, which defines that term as the mounting or installation of transmission
equipment on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/ or receiving radio
frequency signals for communications purposes. As an illustration and not a limitation, the FCC' s
definition effectively means " to add" and does not necessarily refer to more than one wireless
facility installed at a single site.
Eligible Facilities Request" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 3), as may be amended, which defines that term as any request for modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of such
tower or base station, involving: ( i) collocation of new transmission equipment; ( ii) removal of
transmission equipment; or ( iii) replacement of transmission equipment.
Eligible Support Structure" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 4), as may be amended, which defines that term as any tower or base station as
18. 94 ( 2) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
defined in this section, provided that it is existing at the time the relevant application is filed with
the State or local government under this section.
Existing" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 4), as may
be amended, which provides that a constructed tower or base station is existing for purposes of
the FCC' s Section 6409(a) regulations if it has been reviewed and approved under the applicable
zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory review process, provided that
a tower that has not been reviewed and approved because it was not in a zoned area when it was
built, but was lawfully constructed, is existing for purposes of this definition.
FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor
agency.
Personal Wireless Services" means the same as defined in 47 U. S. C.  332( c)( 7)( C)( i),
as may be amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless
services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
Personal Wireless Service Facilities" means the same as defined in 47 U. S. C. 
332( c)( 7)( C)( i), as may be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal
wireless services.
RF" means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves between 30 kHz and 300 GHz in
the electromagnetic spectrum range.
Section 6409(a)" means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation
Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U. S. C.  1455( a), as may be
amended.
Site" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 6), as may be
amended, which provides that for towers other than towers in the public rights- of-way, the current
boundaries of the leased or owned property surrounding the tower and any access or utility
easements currently related to the site, and, for other eligible support structures, further restricted
to that area in proximity to the structure and to other transmission equipment already deployed
on the ground.
Substantial Change" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 7), as may be amended, which defines that term differently based on the particular
wireless facility type ( tower or base station) and location ( in or outside the public right- of-way).
For clarity, this definition organizes the FCC' s criteria and thresholds for a substantial change
according to the wireless facility type and location.
A. For towers outside the public rights-of-way, a substantial change occurs when:
1. The proposed collocation or modification increases the overall height more
than 10% or the height of one additional antenna array not to exceed 20 feet ( whichever is
greater); or
2. The proposed collocation or modification increases the width more than 20
feet from the edge of the wireless tower or the width of the wireless tower at the level of the
appurtenance (whichever is greater); or
3. The proposed collocation or modification involves the installation of more
than the standard number of equipment cabinets for the technology involved, not to exceed four;
or
4. The proposed collocation or modification involves excavation outside the
current boundaries of the leased or owned property surrounding the wireless tower, including any
access or utility easements currently related to the site.
B. For towers in the public rights- of-way and for all base stations, a substantial
change occurs when:
1. The proposed collocation or modification increases the overall height more
than 10% or 10 feet (whichever is greater); or
2. The proposed collocation or modification increases the width more than 6
feet from the edge of the wireless tower or base station; or
18. 94 ( 3) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
3. The proposed collocation or modification involves the installation of any
new equipment cabinets on the ground when there are no existing ground- mounted equipment
cabinets; or
4. The proposed collocation or modification involves the installation of any
new ground- mounted equipment cabinets that are ten percent ( 10%) larger in height or volume
than any existing ground- mounted equipment cabinets; or
5. The proposed collocation or modification involves excavation outside the
area in proximity to the structure and other transmission equipment already deployed on the
ground.
C. In addition, for all towers and base stations wherever located, a substantial change
occurs when:
1. The proposed collocation or modification would defeat the existing
concealment elements of the support structure as determined by the Director; or
2. The proposed collocation or modification violates a prior condition of
approval, provided however that the collocation need not comply with any prior condition of
approval related to height, width, equipment cabinets or excavation that is inconsistent with the
thresholds for a substantial change described in this section.
Note: The thresholds for a substantial change outlined above are disjunctive. The failure
to meet any one or more of the applicable thresholds means that a substantial change would
occur. The thresholds for height increases are cumulative limits. For sites with horizontally
separated deployments, the cumulative limit is measured from the originally- permitted support
structure without regard to any increases in size due to wireless equipment not included in the
original design. For sites with vertically separated deployments, the cumulative limit is measured
from the permitted site dimensions as they existed on February 22, 2012the date that Congress
passed Section 6409( a).
Tower" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R.  1. 40001( b)( 9), as may be
amended, which defines that term as any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any FCC- licensed or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including
structures that are constructed for wireless communications services including, but not limited to,
private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site. Examples include, but
are not limited to, monopoles, mono-trees and lattice towers.
Transmission Equipment" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 8), as may be amended, which defines that term as equipment that facilitates
transmission for any FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but
not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and regular and backup
power supply. The term includes equipment associated with wireless communications services
including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
Wireless" means any FCC- licensed or authorized wireless communication service
transmitted over frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.030 Applicability
This Chapter applies to all collocations or modifications to an existing wireless tower or
base station submitted with a written request for approval pursuant to Section 6409(a). However,
the applicant may voluntarily elect to seek a minor use permit or special use permit under Chapter
18. 92.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
18. 94 ( 4) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 18. 94.040 Approval Required
A. Section 6409(a) Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove
transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station submitted with a written
request for approval under Section 6409( a) shall require a Section 6409(a) approval subject to
the Zoning Administrator' s approval, conditional approval or denial without prejudice pursuant to
the standards and procedures contained in this Chapter.
B. Other Regulatory Approvals Required. No collocation or modification approved
under any Section 6409(a) approval may occur unless the applicant also obtains all other permits
or regulatory approvals from other City departments and state or federal agencies. Furthermore,
any Section 6409( a) approval granted under this Chapter shall remain subject to any and all lawful
conditions and/ or requirements associated with such other permits or regulatory approvals from
other City departments and state or federal agencies.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.050 Permit Applications
A. Application Requirement. The City shall not approve any wireless facility subject
to this Chapter except upon a duly filed application consistent with this Section 18. 94.050 and any
other written rules the City or the Zoning Administrator may establish from time to time in any
publicly-stated format.
B. Application Content. The materials required under this section are minimum
requirements for any application.
1. Master Application and Applicable Fee. The applicant must provide the
applicable minor use permit application form with the applicable application fee.
2. Title Report and Owner's Authorization. For facilities proposed or located
on private property, the applicant must provide a title report prepared within the six months prior
to the application filing date in order for the City to verify the property owner's identity. No title
report is required for facilities proposed or located in the public rights- of-way. If the applicant does
not own the subject property or the support structure in the public rights- of-way, the application
must include a written authorization signed by the property owner that empowers the applicant to
file the application and perform all wireless facility construction, installation, operation and
maintenance to the extent described in the application.
3. Regulatory Authorizations. To the extent that the applicant claims any
regulatory authorization or other right to use the public rights- of-way, such as a Certificate of
Public Convenience and Necessity, the applicant must provide a true and correct copy of the
certificate, license, notice to proceed or other regulatory authorization that supports the applicant's
claim.
4. Prior Regulatory Approvals. Evidence that the applicant holds all current
licenses and registrations from the FCC and any other applicable regulatory bodies where such
license( s) or registration( s) are necessary to provide wireless services utilizing the proposed
wireless facility. For any prior local regulatory approval( s) associated with the wireless facility, the
applicant must submit copies of all such approvals, including any corresponding approved project
plans and conditions of approval. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that
sets forth reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the
time it was constructed or modified.
5. Project Plans. A fully dimensioned site plan and elevation drawings
prepared and sealed by a California- licensed engineer showing any existing wireless facilities
with all existing transmission equipment and other improvements, the proposed wireless facility
with all proposed transmission equipment and other improvements and the legal boundaries of
the leased or owned area surrounding the proposed wireless facility and any associated access
18. 94 ( 5) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
or utility easements. The plans must specifically depict and call out the original overall height of
the structure and, if the structure was constructed prior to February 22, 2012, the overall height
that existed on February 22, 2012. The plans must contain all other elements and details required
for site plans submitted with a special use permit application.
6. Site Photos and Photo Simulations. Photographs and photo simulations
that show the proposed wireless facility in context of the site from reasonable line- of-sight
locations from public streets or other adjacent viewpoints, together with a map that shows the
photo location of each view angle.
7. RF Compliance Demonstration. An RF exposure compliance report
prepared and certified by an RF engineer acceptable to the City that certifies that the proposed
wireless facility, as well as any collocated wireless facilities, will comply with applicable federal
RF exposure standards and exposure limits. The RF report must include the actual frequency and
power levels ( in watts effective radiated power ( ERP)) for all existing and proposed antennas at
the site and exhibits that show the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas and the
boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess of the uncontrolled/ general population limit (as
that term is defined by the FCC) and also the boundaries of areas with RF exposures in excess
of the controlled/ occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). Each such boundary shall
be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site.
8. Acoustic Analysis. A written report that analyzes acoustic levels for the
proposed wireless facility and all associated equipment including without limitation all
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent
backup power generators in order to demonstrate compliance with Chapter 8. 32 ( Noise Control).
The acoustic analysis must be prepared and certified by an engineer and include an analysis of
the manufacturers' specifications for all noise- emitting equipment and a depiction of the proposed
equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a written report, the applicant may
submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the
proposed equipment will not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits.
9. Section 6409( a) Justification Analysis. A written statement that explains in
plain factual detail whether and why Section 6409(a) and the related FCC regulations at 47 C. F. R.
1. 40001 et seq. require approval for the specific project. A complete written narrative analysis
will state the applicable standard and all the facts that allow the City to conclude the standard has
been metbare conclusions not factually supported do not constitute a complete written analysis.
As part of this written statement the applicant must also include ( i) whether and why the support
structure qualifies as an existing tower or existing base station; and ( ii) whether and why the
proposed collocation or modification does not cause a substantial change in height, width,
excavation, equipment cabinets, concealment or permit compliance.
C. Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. The City shall not review any application
unless duly filed in accordance with the provisions in this Section 18. 94. 050( c).
1. Pre- Submittal Conference. Before application submittal, applicants must
schedule and attend a pre- application meeting with City staff for all proposed modifications
submitted for approval pursuant to Section 6409(a). The pre- submittal conference is intended to
streamline the review process through informal discussion that includes, without limitation, the
appropriate project classification, including whether the project qualifies for Section 6409( a); any
latent issues in connection with the existing tower or base station; potential concealment issues
if applicable); coordination with other City departments responsible for application review; and
application completeness issues. To mitigate unnecessary delays due to application
incompleteness, applicants are encouraged ( but not required) to bring any draft applications or
other materials so that City staff may provide informal feedback about whether such applications
or other materials may be incomplete or unacceptable. The Zoning Administrator may, in the
Zoning Administrator' s discretion, grant a written exemption to the submittal appointment under
Section 18. 94.050( c)( 2) and/ or for a specific requirement for a complete application to any
18. 94 ( 6) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
applicant who ( i) schedules, attends and fully participates in any pre-submittal conference and ( ii)
shows to the Zoning Administrator' s satisfaction that such specific requirement duplicates
information already provided in other materials to be submitted or is otherwise unnecessary to
the City' s review under facts and circumstances in that particular case. Any written exemption will
be limited to the project discussed at the pre- submittal conference and will not be extended to any
other project.
2. Submittal Appointment. All applications must be filed with the City at a prescheduled
appointment. Applicants may generally submit one application per appointment, but
may schedule successive appointments for multiple applications whenever feasible and not
prejudicial to other applicants. Any application received without an appointment, whether
delivered in- person or through any other means, will not be considered duly filed unless the
applicant received a written exemption from the Zoning Administrator at a pre-submittal
conference.
3. Appointment Scheduling Procedures. For any event in the submittal
process that requires an appointment, applicants must submit a written request to the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall endeavor to provide applicants with an appointment
as soon as reasonably feasible and within five business days after a written request is received.
D. Applications Deemed Withdrawn. To promote efficient review and timely decisions,
an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails
to tender a substantive response to the City within 90 calendar days after the City deems the
application incomplete in a written notice to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator may, in the
Zoning Administrator' s discretion, grant a written extension for up to an additional 30 calendar
days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 90th day that shows good cause to
grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant' s reasonable control will
be considered good cause to grant the extension.
E. Departmental Forms, Rules and Other Regulations. The City Council authorizes
the Zoning Administrator to develop and publish permit application forms, checklists, informational
handouts and other related materials that the Zoning Administrator finds necessary, appropriate
or useful for processing requests for Section 6409(a) approvals. Without further authorization from
the City Council, the Zoning Administrator may from time- to-time update and alter any such permit
application forms, checklists, informational handouts and other related materials as the Zoning
Administrator deems necessary, appropriate or useful to respond to regulatory, technological or
other changes related to this Chapter. The City Council authorizes the Zoning Administrator to
establish other reasonable rules and regulations, which may include without limitation regular
hours for appointments with applicants, as the Zoning Administrator deems necessary or
appropriate to organize, document and manage the application intake process. All such rules and
regulations must be in written form and publicly stated to provide applicants with prior notice.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.060 Decisions
A. Administrative Review; Decision Notices. The Zoning Administrator shall
administratively review an application for a Section 6409( a) approval and may act on such an
application without prior notice or a public hearing. Within five working days after the Zoning
Administrator conditionally approves or denies an application submitted for approval pursuant to
Section 6409( a) or before the FCC timeframe for review expires ( whichever occurs first), the
Zoning Administrator shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the Zoning
Administrator determines that an application submitted for approval pursuant to Section 6409( a)
does not qualify for approval, the Zoning Administrator will send written notice to the applicant
that includes the reasons to support the approval authority' s decision and states that the
18. 94 ( 7) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
application will be automatically denied without prejudice on the 60th day after the date the
application was filed unless the applicant withdraws the application.
B. Required Findings for Approval. The Zoning Administrator may approve or
conditionally approve an application submitted for approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) when it
finds that the proposed project:
1 . Involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission equipment on
an existing wireless tower or base station; and
2. Does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing
wireless tower or base station.
C. Criteria for Denial Without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provisions in this
Chapter, and consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the Zoning Administrator
may deny without prejudice an application submitted for approval pursuant to Section 6409( a)
when it finds that the proposed project:
1 . Does not satisfy the criteria for approval;
2. Violates any legally enforceable standard or permit condition reasonably
related to public health and safety then in effect; or
3. Involves the replacement of the entire support structure.
D. Conditional Approvals. Subject to any applicable limitations in federal or state law,
nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the City' s authority to conditionally approve an
application for a Section 6409(a) approval to protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare.
E. Appeals. Any applicant may appeal a decision by the Zoning Administrator's
decision to deny without prejudice a Section 6409(a) application. The appeal must be filed within
10 days from the Zoning Administrator' s decision. The appeal must state in plain terms the
grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The City Manager shall serve as
the appellate authority for all appeals of all actions of the Zoning Administrator taken pursuant to
this Chapter. The City Manager shall limit its review to whether the project should be approved or
denied in accordance with the provisions in Section 18. 94. 060( b)-( c). The decision of the City
Manager shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.070 Standard Conditions of Approval
In addition to all other conditions adopted by the approval authority, all special use permits
and minor use permits, whether approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this Section 18. 94.070. The
approval authority shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case- by- case
basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to allow for the proper
operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals of this chapter.
A. Permit Term. The City' s grant or grant by operation of law of a Section 6409( a)
approval constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or other prior
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station. The City' s grant or grant by
operation of law of a Section 6409( a) approval will not extend the permit term, if any, for any minor
use permit, special use permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. Accordingly, the
term for a Section 6409(a) approval shall be coterminous with the underlying permit or other prior
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station.
B. Accelerated Permit Terms Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court of
competent jurisdiction invalidates any portion of Section 6409( a) or any FCC rule that interprets
Section 6409(a) such that federal law would not mandate approval for any Section 6409( a)
approval( s), such approval( s) shall automatically expire one year from the effective date of the
18. 94 ( 8) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
judicial order, unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of previously
approved Section 6409(a) approvals or the Zoning Administrator grants an extension upon written
request from the permittee that shows good cause for the extension, which includes without
limitation extreme financial hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous sentence to the
contrary, the Zoning Administrator may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite extension.
A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements approved under the invalidated
Section 6409(a) approval when it has submitted an application for either a minor use permit or
special use permit for those improvements before the one- year period ends.
C. No Waiver of Standing. The City' s grant or grant by operation of law of a Section
6409(a) approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the City
to challenge Section 6409(a), any FCC rules that interpret Section 6409(a) or any Section 6409( a)
approval.
D. Approved Plans. Before the permittee submits any applications to the Building
Division, the permittee must incorporate this Section 6409( a) approval, all conditions associated
with this Section 6409( a) approval and the approved photo simulations into the project plans ( the
Approved Plans"). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility in strict
compliance with the Approved Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other changes to the
Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other departments or public
agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject
to the Zoning Administrator' s prior review and approval, who may revoke the Section 6409( a)
approval if the Zoning Administrator finds that the requested alteration, modification or other
change may cause a substantial change as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C. F. R. 
1. 40001( b)( 7), as may be amended.
E. Build- out Period. This Section 6409( a) approval will automatically expire one year
from the issuance date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and approvals required to
install, construct and/ or operate the approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation
any permits or approvals required by any federal, state or local public agencies with jurisdiction
over the subject property, the wireless facility or its use. The Zoning Administrator may grant one
written extension to a date certain when the permittee shows good cause to extend the limitations
period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to the automatic
expiration date in this condition.
F. Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which
includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes,
fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the
Approved Plans and all conditions in this Section 6409(a) approval. The permittee shall keep the
site area free from all litter and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall
remove and remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee
receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred.
G. Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with
all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of law
Laws") applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any use or
activities in connection with the use authorized in this Section 6409(a) approval. The permittee
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly construed and
that no other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise
lessen the permittee' s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws.
H. Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable
efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may
arise from the permittee' s construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair,
removal and/ or other activities at the site. The permittee shall not perform or cause others to
perform any construction, installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or
18. 94 ( 9) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
other work that involves heavy equipment or machines on ( 1) any weekday or Saturday between
7 PM and 7 AM or ( 2) any Sunday or holiday. The restricted work hours in this condition will not
prohibit any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any
work during an emergency declared by the City. The Zoning Administrator or the Zoning
Administrator's designee may issue a stop work order for any work that violates this condition.
I. Noise Complaints. The permittee shall conduct all activities on the site in
compliance with the ambient noise standards in Chapter 8. 32 applicable to the zone. In the event
that any person files a noise complaint and the City verifies that such complaint is valid, the
permittee must remedy the violation within 10 days after notice from the City, which may include
a demonstration that the permittee has amended its operational guidelines in situations where the
violation arises from the permittee' s personnel rather than the permittee' s equipment.
J. Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that
the City or its designee may enter onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment
upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee; provided, however, that the City or its designee
may, but will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair,
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements
or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee will be
permitted to supervise the City or its designee while such inspection or emergency access occurs.
K. Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Planning Division with
accurate and up-to- date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility,
which includes without limitation such person' s full name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile
number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information
up-to- date at all times.
L. Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon which
the wireless facility is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, its agents,
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all ( 1) damages, liabilities, injuries,
losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other
actions or proceedings (" Claims") brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials,
employees or volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City' s
approval of this Section 6409(a) approval, and ( 2) other Claims any kind or form, whether for
personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee' s or
its agents', directors', officers', employees', contractors', subcontractors', licensees', or
customers' acts or omissions in connection with this Section 6409(a) approval or the wireless
facility. In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to
promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in
the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right
to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the
City' s defense, and the property owner and/ or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly reimburse
City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the
defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the permittee' s indemnification
obligations under this condition are a material consideration that motivates the City to approve
this Section 6409( a) approval, and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration
or revocation of this Section 6409(a) approval.
M. Performance Bond. Before the Building Official issues any construction permit in
connection with the wireless facility, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety
and in a form acceptable to the City Manager in an amount equal to or greater than a written
estimate from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which includes
without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets,
hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings and foundations,
18. 94 ( 10) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in connection with the wireless
facility. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in
accordance with California Government Code  65964( a), the City Manager shall take into
consideration information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless
facility.
N. Recall to the Approval Authority. The original approval authority may recall this
Section 6409(a) approval for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with the
Vista Development Code or any approval conditions. At a duly noticed public hearing and in
accordance with all applicable laws, the approval authority may revoke this Section 6409( a)
approval or amend these conditions as the approval authority deems necessary or appropriate to
correct any such noncompliance.
O. Record Retention. The permittee must maintain complete and accurate copies of
all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in connection with the wireless facility, which
includes without limitation this approval, the approved plans and photo simulations incorporated
into this approval, all conditions associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or
approvals issued in connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not
maintain such records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would
be resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the permittee.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
Section 18. 94.080 Compliance Obligations
An applicant or permittee will not be relieved of its obligation to comply with every
applicable provision in the Vista Development Code, any permit, any permit condition or any
applicable law or regulation by reason of any failure by the City to timely notice, prompt or enforce
compliance by the applicant or permittee.
Ord. No. 2017- 7, Added, 5/ 9/ 17)
18. 94 ( 11) Vista 6/ 9/ 17)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 04
Street Names and Building Numbers
Sections:
19. 04.010 Purpose
19. 04.020 Public Street Names
19. 04.030 Private Street Names
19. 04.040 Policy
19. 04.050 Procedure
19. 04.060 Building and House Numbers; System Established
19. 04.070 House Numbers; General Rules
19. 04.090 Permits
19. 04. 100 Installation
19. 04. 110 Duty to Install
19. 04. 120 Enforcement
Section 19. 04.010 Purpose
This article is adopted to promote the convenience, health, safety and general welfare of
residents of the City of Vista by providing a uniform system for naming and addressing public
and private streets to facilitate the expeditious response of police, fire, and other emergency
public agencies, the delivery of mail, and the location of private and public buildings and facilities.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 1. 1; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19.04.020 Public Street Names
All public streets within the City of Vista shall have the names heretofore assigned to
such streets, as follows:
A. The names assigned to such streets on final or parcel maps recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder of San Diego County; or
B. The names assigned to such streets by the City Council, after recommendation
by the Planning Commission, either as a designation for previously unnamed public streets or
as a new designation for previously named public streets, such action of the Council to be by
resolution under authority contained in Section 34091. 1 of the Government Code and in Section
5026 of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of California.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 1. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.030 Private Street Names
The Planning Commission of the City of Vista is hereby authorized and instructed to
assign names to private streets or easements providing principal access to two or more parcels
of land. The Commission may act on its own authority or upon receipt of a request in writing
signed by a majority of the owners of property dependent upon such private street or easement
for vehicular and pedestrian access. Such request shall be accompanied by an agreement to
provide a street name sign.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 1. 3; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
19. 04 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 04.040 Policy
A. The identifying name for a street shall only be used once.
B. Address( es) are to be assigned at the Planning Division prior to issuance of a
building permit.
C. All addresses and street names must be approved by the Vista Fire Department
prior to final address assignment by the Planning Division.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 1; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.050 Procedure
A. All Final Map applicants shall submit street names for approval to the Planning
Division for all proposed public and private streets. These names shall be shown on the first
submittal of the Final Map, and also on a separate sheet of paper to be submitted concurrently
with the map.
B. In all cases, street names shall be consistent with this chapter. No street names
will be approved that use the main name more than once. If there is an Independence Way, for
example, there will never be an Independence Street, Independence Boulevard, etc.
C. Street names within the City of Vista must be limited to a total of 16 letters and
spaces so that the name( s) will fit on standard street signs.
D. Short streets, cul- de-sac streets, and winding streets should have short names to
facilitate placing their names on maps and plans.
1. Cul- de- sac streets should end with Court, Place or Circle.
2. Short streets and winding streets should end in Way, Trail, or Lane.
E. Streets which change direction approximately 90 degrees between intersecting
streets should have different street names.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 2; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.060 Building and House Numbers; System Established
A general system for numbering buildings in the City of Vista under authority contained
in Section 34092 of the Government Code of the State of California, is hereby established as
follows:
A. An 8- 1/ 2 by 11 inch sheet of paper showing the subdivision with streets and
individual lots shall be submitted to the Development Service Center. Building and house
numbers will then be assigned by the Planning Division prior to issuance of building permit.
B. On all streets running in a generally east and west direction lying westerly of Santa
Fe Avenue, numbers shall start with 100 at Santa Fe Avenue and increase westerly, and such
numbers shall be assigned and used with the prefix " West" before the names of those streets
which extend both east and west of Santa Fe Avenue.
C. On all streets running in a generally east and west direction lying easterly of Santa
Fe Avenue, numbers shall start with 100 at Santa Fe Avenue and increase easterly, and such
numbers shall be assigned and used with the prefix " East" before the names of those streets
which extend both east and west of Santa Fe Avenue.
D. On all streets running in a generally north and south direction, numbers shall be
assigned to run north and south from the following base line: Vista Way from the west city
boundary to Escondido Avenue, Alta Vista Drive from Escondido Avenue to Vale Terrace Place,
Vale Terrace from Vale Terrace Place to Foothill Drive, and Catalina Avenue from Foothill Drive to
the east city boundary.
E. On all streets running in a generally north and south direction lying northerly of the
base line described in Subsection D of this section, numbers shall start with 100 at said base line
19. 04 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
and increase northerly, and such numbers shall be assigned and used with the prefix " North"
before the names of those streets which extend both north and south of said base line.
F. On all streets running in a generally north and south direction lying southerly of the
base line described in Subsection D of this section, numbers shall start with 100 at said base line
and increase southerly, and such numbers shall be assigned and used with the prefix " South"
before the names of those streets which extend both north and south of said base line.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 3; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.070 House Numbers; General Rules
A. Numbers shall be assigned on the General Plan of 100 to each block, and where
adjacent blocks are irregular in length, the numbers in those blocks may be varied to meet the
conditions as determined by the City Planner or his representative.
B. Even numbers shall be allotted to the left side of any street as such numbers
increase from the base line streets, and odd numbers shall be assigned to the right side of any
street as such numbers increase from the base line streets.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 4; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.080 Assignment of Numbers
All the numbers shall be assigned by the City Planner, or his representative, who shall
determine the proper number in each case from maps to be maintained on file in the Development
Service Center.
Prior Code Appendix A 27. 7. 2. 5; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04.090 Permits
Before any permit shall be issued for building construction or use, the applicant for such
permit shall obtain from the Planning Division the proper house number for the property for
which such permit is desired.
Editor' s Note: The effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter is 3- 9- 81.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 6; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19. 04. 100 Installation
House numbers as so allotted shall be placed on buildings over the principal entrance or
on some other conspicuous place on the front of the building on the property where the
numbers may be easily seen from the street, and all such numbers shall be at least two and
one- half inches in height.
Prior Code Appendix A 27- 7. 2. 7; Ord. No. 91- 42, Amended, 12/ 10/ 91)
Section 19.04. 110 Duty to Install
It shall be the duty of the lessee, occupant, or owner of any existing building to obtain the
proper building number from the Development Service Center and to place this number on said
building, and it shall be the duty of the owner of any new building to place the number assigned
on said building on or before the day final inspection is made by a City Building Inspector.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
19. 04 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 04. 120 Enforcement
If the City Planner, or his representative, shall find any building upon which the proper
number has not been properly placed, as required by this article, he may order the lessee,
occupant, or owner to obtain and correctly place such number within ten days. The posting of a
notice upon the entrance door of such building shall meet the requirements of this ordinance for
legal service of such notice or order. It shall be the duty of the owner of said building to comply
with said order.
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91)
19. 04 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 08
Street, Sidewalk and Driveway Improvements
Sections:
19. 08.010 Permit Required
19. 08.012 Excavation of Streets Moratorium
19. 08.014 Restoration of Excavated Streets
19. 08.016 City' s Right to Restore Surface
19. 08.020 Residential Driveways - Permit - Definitions
19. 08.030 Fees and Deposits Established by Resolution
19. 08.040 Application Required - Plans -Work by Licensed Contractors in Public
Places
19. 08.050 Release of Liability
19. 08.060 Denial of Permit - Prosecution and Progress - Completion of Work by City
19. 08.070 Permit Conditions - Changes in Work - Standard Specifications Adopted -
Testing - Safety Precautions - Removal of Unsatisfactory Work
19. 08. 080 Hearing and Approval by City Council Required
19. 08. 090 Supplemental Improvements - Reimbursement of Properties Benefitted
19. 08. 100 Supplemental Improvements Hearings - Reimbursement Charges and
Agreements
19. 08. 110 Repayment
Section 19. 08.010 Permit Required
No person shall construct or repair or alter any curb, sidewalk, gutter, driveway
approach, roadway surface or structure, including drainage structures, in any public place
without first obtaining from the City Engineer a permit to do so.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 1)
Section 19. 08.012 Excavation of Streets Moratorium
A. No excavation shall be made through the final paving course of any city street
prior to, nor within three years following the date of, completion and acceptance of any work of
paving or repaving, or one year, in the case of chip sealing or seal coating of city streets, except
for emergency repairs or service.
B. In those cases where a party must excavate within the three years or one year
periods as set forth in Subsection A above, the party requesting authorization to excavate shall
agree to replace the affected street section in accordance with established City standards. This
moratorium shall apply to all persons, including but not limited to public utilities or other
companies either under regulation of the State Public Utilities Commission or under franchise,
license, or permit granted by the City, and having the right, either by general or special
permission to excavate in public streets to construct, maintain or repair their facilities.
Ord. No. 2008- 18, Added, 6/ 18/ 08)
Section 19. 08.014 Restoration of Excavated Streets
A. Except as provided in Subsections B and C below, applicant shall comply with
the requirements and standards in the most current Standard Specification for Standards of
Public Works Construction ( Green Book), in the most current San Diego Region Standard
19. 08 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Drawings, and subsequent modifications. Acceptance or approval of any excavation work by
the City Engineer or his designee shall not prevent the City from asserting a claim against the
applicant and its surety for incomplete or defective work if discovered. The City Engineer's, or
his designee' s, presence during the performance of any excavation work shall not relieve the
permittee of its responsibilities hereunder.
B. In the case of excavations and cuts within new street sections subject to the
moratorium set forth in Section 19. 08.012 perpendicular to the traffic flow shall include
resurfacing of the street section with necessary grinding and an asphalt concrete cap of a
minimum thickness of two inches for a distance of five feet on either side of the excavation on a
longitudinal basis and at either end of the excavation from curb to curb or the full width of the
street.
C. In the case of excavations and cuts within new street sections subject to the
moratorium set forth in Section 19. 08.012 parallel to the traffic flow shall include the resurfacing
of the entire traffic lane adjacent to the cut with necessary grinding and asphalt concrete cap of
a minimum thickness of two inches from the curb or for streets without curbs, the edge of the
traffic lane, to the opposite edge of the traffic lane as identified by a painted line, curb or other
divider for the entire length of the cut plus ten feet on either end of the cut or excavation. For
those streets without painted or other dividers, the edge of the traffic lane shall be from the edge
of the street to the center of the street. For the purpose of this section, a marked bike lane or a
marked parking lane located between a marked bike lane and curb or edge of a paved street,
shall be considered a separate traffic lane.
Ord. No. 2008- 18, Added, 6/ 18/ 08)
Section 19. 08.016 City' s Right to Restore Surface
If the applicant shall have failed to restore the surface of the street or public place to its
original and proper condition, upon expiration of the time fixed by such permit, or shall otherwise
have failed to complete the excavation work in the same or better condition as it was prior to the
excavation for a period of one year after permanent completion of the work and open to public
traffic, the City Engineer, at his discretion, shall have the right to do all work and things
necessary to restore the street or public place and to complete the excavation work and to
restore the street or public place. The applicant shall be liable for the actual cost of the
restoration and an additional 30 percent of such cost for general overhead and administrative
expense. The City shall have a cause of action for all such cost and the 30 percent overhead
for all fees, expenses, and amounts paid out and due for such work. Payment of the amount
due the City shall be applied to any funds the applicant has deposited with the City. The City
shall also enforce its rights under the applicant' s surety bond.
Ord. No. 2008- 18, Added, 6/ 18/ 08)
Section 19. 08.020 Residential Driveways - Permit - Definitions
No person shall construct any residential driveway without first obtaining from the City
Engineer a permit to do so. For the purposes of this chapter, a residential driveway includes
that paving, surfacing or other improvement constructed between the public way to required
parking places, including garages and carports.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 2)
Section 19. 08.030 Fees and Deposits Established by Resolution
Every applicant for a permit required by this chapter shall, at the time of making
application for such permit, pay the fees and make any deposits required for such permit. Fees
19. 08 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
and deposit amounts may be established by resolution of the City Council and changed or
amended from time to time as the Council deems appropriate.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 3)
Section 19. 08.040 Application Required - Plans - Work by Licensed Contractors in
Public Places
Application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made upon a form provided by
the City Engineer and shall specify, in detail, the location, nature and extent of the work to be
performed or shall refer to a City drawing number. If in the opinion of the City Engineer, the
work proposed is of a kind or nature to require the making of plans or the setting of stakes, or
both, the City Engineer may require that the application be accompanied by the necessary plans
prepared by a registered civil engineer. Any work of a permanent nature performed in a public
place shall be performed by a contractor licensed by the State of California for the particular
type or kind of work to be done.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 4)
Section 19. 08.050 Release of Liability
On each application filed pursuant to this chapter, the applicant shall sign a statement
that he agrees to preserve and hold harmless the City and each officer and employee thereof
from any liability or responsibility for any accident, loss or damage happening or occurring as a
proximate result of the applicant' s negligence or the negligence of the applicant' s agents,
servants, employees or contractors in the design or performance of the work undertaken under
any permit granted pursuant to such application.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 5)
Section 19. 08.060 Denial of Permit - Prosecution and Progress - Completion of Work
by City
If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the work proposed would result in a condition
hazardous to the traveling public he may refuse to issue a permit for the work or may specify
mitigating measures to be included in the proposed work. If the work for which a permit has
been granted is not diligently and continuously prosecuted to completion, the City Engineer may
revoke the permit and the City may elect to perform and complete the work. In such event, the
permittee shall pay to the City upon demand and prior to actual performance and completion of
the work by the City or its contractor, the cost of performing and completing the work according
to the permit, the plans, if any, and the specifications. In the event the permittee fails to pay
such cost to the City upon demand, the City may bring an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to recover such cost, together with reasonable attorney' s fees.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 6)
Section 19. 08.070 Permit Conditions - Changes in Work - Standard Specifications
Adopted -Testing - Safety Precautions - Removal of Unsatisfactory
Work
All improvements constructed in public places shall conform to the permit and the
approved plans, if any:
A. No person shall perform any work in a public place without a permit issued by the
City Engineer, nor shall work be performed in an amount greater than, different from or contrary
to the terms and conditions of such permit.
19. 08 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. No change in any plans, if plans are made, or specifications shall be made
unless approved in writing by the City Engineer.
C. All improvements constructed in a public place shall be done in accordance with
the latest edition of the " Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction," the San Diego
County regional standard drawings, and such other standard drawings and details as may, from
time to time, be approved by the City Engineer.
D. The inspection, approval, or acceptance of work or materials shall not relieve the
permittee of any of his obligations to perform and complete the work according to the plans,
specifications and terms and conditions of the permit.
E. Safety measures and traffic control precautions shall conform to current practice
as specified in the latest edition of the " Manual of Warning Signs, Lights, and Devices for Use in
Performance of Work upon Highways," published by the Department of Transportation of the
State of California in accordance with Section 21400 of the Vehicle Code, or the latest edition of
the " Traffic Control Manual' published by the San Diego- Imperial Counties Chapter of the
American Public Works Association.
F. The City Engineer may require such testing of materials incorporated in the
finished work as he deems necessary and the cost of such testing shall be borne by the
permittee.
G. All work shall be done in a manner designed to minimize inconvenience to the
public, shall be diligently prosecuted to completion, and all work sites in use by the public shall
be maintained in a safe and clean condition. In the event that a work site is not maintained in a
satisfactory manner, the City Engineer may order such additional cleanup work or safety
precautions as he deems necessary. Upon failure by the permittee to comply within 24 hours,
the City Engineer may cause the work to be done and the cost thereof charged to the permittee.
H. Upon order of the City Engineer any work or material which does not conform to
the permit, the plans, if plans are made, and the specifications shall be removed and replaced to
conform to such plans, specifications and permit, notwithstanding that such work or material has
been previously inspected, accepted or approved by the City Engineer.
Prior Code 27- 4. 1. 7)
Section 19. 08.080 Hearing and Approval by City Council Required
Public improvements not conforming to adopted materials, specifications, or standard
practice may be approved by the City Council, after hearing, for specifically planned areas.
Such deviations may consist of tree variety, lighting standards or luminaires, or such other
unusual material or application as the City Council may consider an enhancement to the
planned area.
Prior Code 27- 4. 2. 1)
Section 19. 08.090 Supplemental Improvements - Reimbursement of Properties
Benefitted
Whenever a street or alley has been improved other than by public improvement
proceedings for which assessments are levied, and the cost thereof shall have been paid by
only a portion of the property owners benefitted, the City Engineer may, upon final inspection
and the acceptance of the improvements by the City, determine the cost of such improvements,
the boundary of the area of all property benefitted, and the allocation of the cost of the various
parcels of benefitted property. This authority shall extend only to street and alley improvements
constructed by parties other than the City itself. However, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the developer shall be reimbursed for that portion of the cost of such improvements
19. 08 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
including an amount attributable to interest, in excess of the construction required for his own
project.
Prior Code 27- 4. 3. 1)
Section 19. 08. 100 Supplemental Improvements - Hearings - Reimbursement Charges
and Agreements
A. The City Council shall hold a public hearing to establish the charge, area of
benefit or local benefit district, which shall only be established if the City Council finds that the
reimbursement charge and the area of benefit or local benefit district are reasonably related to
the cost of such supplemental improvements and the actual ultimate beneficiaries thereof. The
City Engineer shall report on the reasonableness of the cost of the improvement, and the
Council may reduce the charge to the extent that the Council finds the costs to have been
unreasonable. The Council shall adopt a resolution formalizing its findings and containing legal
descriptions of each property, the charge to be imposed on each property, and the identity of
the property owner. If a charge is approved, a certified copy of the resolution shall be recorded
with the County Recorder and the City Engineer shall enter into the appropriate reimbursement
agreement with the developer.
B. In addition to the notice required by Section 66451. 3 of the Government Code,
written notice of the hearing shall be given to the developer and to owners of property within the
proposed area of benefit and to the potential users of the supplemental improvements insofar as
they can be ascertained at the time as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll. Such
notices shall be mailed by the City Clerk at least 30 days prior to the date established for
hearing.
C. In the event owners of parcels subject to a majority of the charge object to the
charge, the Council may only approve the charge by the affirmative vote of at least four of its
members.
D. In the event the developer constructs the improvements before the Council
hearing, the City shall not be obligated to reimburse the developer out of City funds should the
Council not establish the charge, area of benefit or local benefit district, and all risk of such
failure to levy the charge shall be the developer' s.
E. In the event the developer requests City Council action prior to the construction
of said improvements, the City Engineer may, upon final approval and signing of improvement
drawings, determine the amount of reimbursement based on the submitted engineer's cost
estimate. The City Council' s action pursuant to Subsection A of this section shall be a
declaration of its intention based on such estimates. The City Council shall hold a second
hearing, with appropriate notice, findings and resolution, to actually establish the charges and
areas based upon as- built costs after completion and acceptance of the improvements.
F. If during the 20- year period following the adoption, pursuant to Subsection A of
this section, of the resolution establishing the benefit area, any person who files a tentative map
or tentative parcel map or applies for a building permit on a lot for which a charge for street or
alley improvements has been established in accordance with this chapter and such person or
his predecessor in interest has not paid such charges to the City, the charge established
thereunder shall be paid prior to the filing of the final map or parcel map or the issuance of the
building permit; provided, however, that such payment shall not be required in connection with
building permits having a total improvement value of $ 3, 000 or less; provided, further, that the
money paid shall include the principal charge plus interest. The rate of interest shall be equal to
the yield on the 20-year United States Treasury Note on the date of the adoption of the above
referenced resolution per the " h. 15" report as published by the Federal Reserve. This interest
rate shall be fixed and applied for the entire life of the agreement, compounded annually, and
prorated for any partial year. Upon the payment of such charge, the City Clerk shall record with
19. 08 ( 5) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
the County Recorder a notice satisfactory to the City Attorney that such charge has been paid
on such parcel.
Prior Code 27- 4. 3. 2; Ord. No. 2008- 17, Amended, 6/ 10/ 08)
Section 19. 08. 110 Repayment
All moneys collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited by the
Treasurer of the City into a street and alley improvement trust fund. The City Treasurer shall
refund to the person or persons who paid for the improvements for which the charges were
collected, or to their assignees, all moneys so collected; except, however, that five per cent of
all such moneys collected shall be retained by the City to defray the expenses incurred in
administering the trust fund.
Prior Code 27- 4. 3. 3)
19. 08 ( 6) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 12
Specific Plan Lines and Hillside Street Declarations
Sections:
19. 12. 010 Purpose of Provisions
19. 12. 020 Definitions
19. 12. 030 Initiation of Proceedings
19. 12. 040 Report-Publishing and Posting - Hearing
19. 12. 050 Determination by City Council
19. 12. 060 Resolution of Intention - Hearing
19. 12. 070 City Council Action Conclusive
19. 12. 080 Building within Right-of-Way Forbidden
19. 12. 090 Alteration or Enlargement Forbidden
19. 12. 100 Zoning Ordinance Requirements Additional
19. 12. 110 Adopted Specific Alignments - Cypress Drive
19. 12. 120 Adopted Specific Alignments - Bobier Drive, Anza Avenue and Mesa Avenue
19. 12. 130 Specific Plan Line - North Santa Fe Avenue
19. 12. 140 Hillside Streets, Repealed
Section 19. 12.010 Purpose of Provisions
In order to promote, coordinate and secure orderly, efficient, economical, and consistent
developmental plans and improvements, a method for the establishment of specific plan lines is
adopted for the purposes more particularly set forth as follows:
A. To assist in providing a definite plan of development for the City and to guide,
control and regulate the future growth of the City in accordance with the General Plan.
B. To provide a guide for the intelligent use of the capital improvement expenditures
of the City for street and highway improvements.
C. To provide an authentic source of information as to the development of the City
for present and prospective residents and investors herein.
D. To prevent deterioration of property values and impairment of conditions for
desirable residential, commercial, industrial, institutional or public development which would
result from the lack of plans designed to promote orderly, harmonious and beneficial
development of the City and all sections thereof.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 1; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 19. 12.020 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases are defined as follows:
Building" or " structure" shall be as defined by the Building Code of the City and shall
also include retaining walls, stairways, required off-street parking facilities, any well, whether for
water, oil or other hydrocarbon products, and any underground storage facilities in excess of
one thousand gallons capacity, provided building or structure does not include any building or
structure as defined in this chapter existing on March 22, 1968, or to trees, agricultural crops,
temporary off-street parking facilities not required by the City, walks or public utilities installed
under authority of a franchise.
Specific plan line" means a line defined by legal description, map, or by distance in
feet from the established center line, or existing line or regularly established property line, or
19. 12 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
surface or subsurface buildings and structures and adopted pursuant to procedures and
requirements of this chapter.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 2)
Section 19. 12.030 Initiation of Proceedings
Proceedings for the establishment of specific plan lines for future rights- of-way along any
portion of streets or planned streets may be initiated by the City Council, Planning Commission
or by petition. A description of the streets or portions of streets along which such specific plan
lines are sought to be established shall be given and shall be accompanied by a sketch or map
showing the streets, lines of adjacent or abutting property and the proposed right- of-way lines
and the distance thereof from the established center line or existing line or regularly established
property line, or surface or subsurface building or structure.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 3; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 19. 12.040 Report - Publishing and Posting - Hearing
Before any action is taken by the City Council concerning proposed specific plan lines
for future right- of-way or hillside street declaration, such matter shall be referred to the Planning
Director for a report and recommendation. The Planning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing and shall give notice of the time and place of such hearing by publishing notice
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the city at least ten
days before the hearing and by causing notices to be posted along the planned right- of-way or
area of declaration in front of each block to be affected or not more than 500 feet apart,
whichever is less. Upon review of the report and recommendation of the Planning Director and,
completion of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit its report and recommendation
to the City Council.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 4)
Section 19. 12.050 Determination by City Council
Upon receipt of a report and recommendation from the Planning Commission and
whenever the public peace, safety, comfort, convenience, interest or welfare may require, the
City Council shall determine the minimum distance back from the street line, or planned street
line, for the erection of buildings or structures along any portion of any street or planned street in
the city, or may declare any street or portion thereof to be a hillside street. The City Council
may order the establishment of lines to be known and designated as specific plan lines,
between which no building or structure may be erected, altered or constructed.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 5)
Section 19. 12.060 Resolution of Intention - Hearing
Before ordering the establishing of any specific plan lines as authorized in this chapter,
the City Council shall adopt a resolution of intention describing the proposed action, which
resolution shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation, published and
circulated in the city. A copy of such resolution shall be posted conspicuously in front of each
block to be affected or not more than 500 feet apart, whichever is less. Such resolution shall
contain a notice of the time and place when and where any person having an objection to the
establishment of the specific plan line may appear to be heard before the City Council. The
time for hearing shall be not less than 15 nor more than 30 days from the date of adoption of the
19. 12 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
resolution of intention and the publication, and posting shall be made at least ten days before
the date of such hearing.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 6; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 19. 12.070 City Council Action Conclusive
At the time set for hearing or any time to which the hearing may be continued, the City
Council shall proceed to hear and pass upon all objections and protests to establishment of the
proposed plan lines, and its decision shall be conclusive and final. The City Council has the
power and jurisdiction to sustain any protests or objections and abandon such proceeding or to
deny any and all protests or objections and order by ordinance the establishment of plan lines
as described in the resolution of intention or modified as the City Council may deem proper.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 7; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Amended, 8/ 14/ 07)
Section 19. 12.080 Building within Right-of-Way Forbidden
After the adoption of the resolution of intention and prior to the time an ordinance
establishing specific plan lines is adopted, no building permit shall be issued for the erection of
any building or structure between such proposed plan lines and any permit so issued shall be
void.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 8)
Section 19. 12.090 Alteration or Enlargement Forbidden
After the effective date of any ordinance establishing specific plan lines, no building or
structure nonconforming as to specific plan line requirements shall be altered or enlarged in any
manner. A variance may be granted from the provisions of this chapter where unnecessary or
unusual hardship is shown and where such variance will not defeat the purpose of this chapter.
The procedures required for variances and appeals from the zoning ordinance shall likewise
apply to variances and appeals from the provisions of this chapter.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 9)
Section 19. 12.100 Zoning Ordinance Requirements Additional
Yard and other requirements of the zoning ordinance shall be separately applied as
requirements additional to specific plan line setbacks, provided, however, that the area of any
parcel between existing right- of-way line and specific plan line shall be considered as part of the
lot area when determining the number of dwelling units that may be placed on a parcel or the
percentage of lot area that may be covered by buildings or structures.
Prior Code 27- 6. 1. 10)
Section 19. 12.110 Adopted Specific Alignments - Cypress Drive
In accordance with the provisions set out in Sections 19. 12. 010 through 19. 12. 100 of
this chapter, the specific plan lines for Cypress Drive, from Monte Vista Drive to South Santa Fe
Avenue, are established for a 60- foot-wide right- of-way and are located 30 feet on each side of
the following described center line, said right- of-way being described as follows:
A. A 60- foot width right- of-way located within Orleavo Heights Unit No. 2 in the City,
County of San Diego, State of California, according to Map No. 2035 filed in the Office of the
County Recorder of said San Diego County on June 15, 1927, the center line of said 60- foot
road easement is described as follows:
19. 12 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Beginning at the center line intersection of Santa Fe Avenue and Cypress Drive
formerly known as Avocado Drive) same as shown on said Map No. 2035; thence north 19
degrees 35 minutes 26 seconds east 274.61 feet to the beginning of a tangent 300.00- footradius
curve, concave southeasterly; thence northeasterly along the arc of said curve through a
central angle of 40 degrees 13 minutes 04 seconds a distance of 210. 58 feet to a point of
reverse curvature of a tangent 200. 00- foot- radius curve, concave westerly, a radial line to said
point bears south 30 degrees 11 minutes 30 seconds east; thence northeasterly, northerly, and
northwesterly, along the arc of said curve through a central angle of 92 degrees 38 minutes 30
seconds a distance of 323.38 feet; thence north 32 degrees 50 minutes 00 seconds west 56. 12
feet to the beginning of a tangent 200. 00- foot-radius curve, concave easterly; thence
northwesterly, northerly, and northeasterly along the arc of said curve through a central angle of
37 degrees 50 minutes 00 seconds a distance of 132. 06 feet to a point of compound curvature
of a tangent 224.58- foot- radius curve, concave southeasterly, a radial line to said point bears
north 85 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds west; thence northeasterly along the arc of said curve
through a central angle of 81 degrees 28 minutes 00 seconds a distance of 319. 32 feet; thence
north 86 degrees 28 minutes 00 seconds east 101. 21 feet to the beginning of a tangent 150. 00-
foot-radius curve, concave northwesterly; thence northeasterly along the arc of said curve
through a central angle of 66 degrees 44 minutes 27 seconds a distance of 174. 73 feet; thence
north 19 degrees 43 minutes 33 seconds east 387.80 feet to the beginning of a tangent 200. 00-
foot-radius curve, concave northwesterly; thence northeasterly along the arc of said curve
through a central angle of 10 degrees 49 minutes 17 seconds a distance of 37. 77 feet; thence
north 08 degrees 54 minutes 16 seconds east 111. 06 feet to the center line intersection of
Avocado Drive and Monte Vista Drive same as shown on said Map No. 2035. Setbacks from
said right- of-way shall be as set forth in Section 2168( d) of the Zoning Ordinance.*
Editor' s Note: Section 2168 of the Zoning Ordinance was repealed by Ord. No. 87- 17  3,
adopted May 26, 1987.
Prior Code 27- 6. 2. 1)
Section 19. 12.120 Adopted Specific Alignments - Bobier Drive, Anza Avenue and Mesa
Avenue
In accordance with the provisions set out in Sections 19. 12. 010 through 19. 12. 100 of
this chapter, the specific plan lines for the alignment of Bobier Drive, Anza Avenue and Mesa
Avenue from a point near the intersection of Mesa Avenue and Calle Jules westerly to the
western limits of the City are established to provide a future right-of-way 100 feet in width and
with each of the future right- of-way lines of the following described center line:
Beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 7, as shown on Map No. 2185 on file in the
Office of the San Diego County Recorder in the State of California; thence north 0 degrees 02
minutes 18 seconds east 20.03 feet to the center line of Mesa Avenue, said point being the true
point of beginning; said point also being the beginning of a 649. 31- foot- radius curve, concave
northerly, having a central angle of 9 degrees 55 minutes; thence westerly along said curve
112. 38 feet; thence north 79 degrees 58 minutes west, 33.81 feet to the beginning of a 1000. 00-
foot-radius curve concave southerly having a central angle of 15 degrees 00 minutes; thence
westerly along said curve 261. 80 feet; thence south 85 degrees 02 minutes west, 100. 00 feet to
the beginning of a 450. 00- foot-radius curve concave northeasterly having a central angle of 89
degrees 21 minutes; thence northwesterly along said curve 701. 75 feet; thence north 5 degrees
37 minutes west 154. 07 feet to the beginning of a 450- foot- radius curve concave southwesterly
having a central angle of 43 degrees 15 minutes 18 seconds; thence northwesterly along said
curve 339.72 feet to a point of reverse curvature with a 450. 00- foot- radius curve concave
northeasterly with a central angle of 12 degrees 03 minutes 54 seconds; thence northwesterly
along said curve 171. 81 feet to a point of reverse curvature with a 500. 00- foot-radius curve,
19. 12 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
concave southwesterly, having a central angle of 12 degrees 03 minutes 54 seconds; thence
northwesterly along said curve 105. 29 feet to the beginning of a 450. 00- foot- radius curve
concave southerly and having a central angle 43 degrees 11 minutes 15 seconds; thence
northwesterly along said curve 339. 19 feet to a point of reverse curvature with a 700. 00- footradius
curve, concave northerly, having a central angle of 18 degrees 02 minutes 52 seconds;
thence westerly along said curve 220. 50 feet to a point of reverse curvature of a 1000. 00- footradius
curve concave southerly and having a central angle of 14 degrees 21 minutes 04
seconds; thence westerly along said curve 250.47 feet; thence south 78 degrees 32 minutes 42
seconds west, 410. 72 feet to the beginning of a 1000. 00- foot- radius curve concave
southeasterly having a central angle of 10 degrees 34 minutes 18 seconds; thence
southwesterly along said curve 184. 51 feet; thence north 89 degrees 07 minutes west 898. 51
feet to the beginning of a 950. 00- footradius curve concave southerly having a central angle of 5
degrees 52 minutes 52 seconds; thence westerly along said curve 97. 51 feet to the beginning of
a 950. 00- foot radius, reverse curve concave northerly having a central angle of 5 degrees 52
minutes 52 seconds; thence westerly along said curve 97. 51 feet; thence north 89 degrees 07
minutes west 343.39 feet to the beginning of a 540. 00- foot- radius curve concave southerly
having a central angle of 23 degrees 13 minutes 10 seconds; thence westerly along said curve
218. 84 feet to the beginning of a 570. 65-foot- radius reverse curve concave northerly having a
central angle of 22 degrees 32 minutes 54 seconds; thence westerly along said curve 224.58
feet; thence north 89 degrees 47 minutes 46 seconds west 1800. 00 feet to the beginning of a
1000. 00- foot- radius curve concave northerly having a central angle of 8 degrees 06 minutes 35
seconds; thence westerly along said curve 141. 54 feet to the beginning of a 1000. 00- foot- radius
reverse curve concave southerly and having a central angle of 8 degrees 06 minutes 35
seconds; thence westerly along said curve 141. 54 feet; thence north 89 degrees 47 minutes 46
seconds west 441. 24 feet; thence north 89 degrees 48 minutes 32 seconds west 450.24 feet to
the beginning of a 1000. 00- foot- radius curve concave southerly and having a central angle of 5
degrees 43 minutes 55 seconds; thence westerly along said curve 100.04 feet to the beginning
of a 1000. 00- foot- radius reverse curve concave northerly and having a central angle of 5
degrees 43 minutes 55 seconds; thence westerly along said curve 100. 04 feet; thence north 89
degrees 48 minutes 32 seconds west 87. 92 feet to a point on the existing center line of Bobier
Drive, said point also being on the westerly city limits of the City of Vista.
Prior Code 27- 6. 2. 2)
Section 19. 12.130 Specific Plan Line - North Santa Fe Avenue
In accordance with the provisions set out in Sections 19. 12. 010 through 19. 12. 100 of
this chapter, the Specific Plan lines for the alignment of North Santa Fe Avenue from East Vista
Way, north to the vicinity of Knapp Drive are established to provide a future right- of-way 100
feet in width and with each of the future right- of-way 100 feet in width and with each future rightof-
way lines 50 feet on each side of the following described centerline as set forth in Exhibit " A"
of this Ordinance.
Ord. No. 91- 21, Enacted, 08/ 27/ 91)
Section 19. 12.140 Hillside Streets
Ord. No. 91- 42, Enacted, 12/ 10/ 91; Ord. No. 2005- 6, Amended, 03/ 22/ 05; Ord. No. 2007- 12, Repealed,
8/ 14/ 07)
19. 12 ( 5) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 16
Encroachments
Sections:
19. 16. 010 Scope of Regulations
19. 16. 020 Permit Required
19. 16. 030 Application for Permit
19. 16. 040 Permittee Liable for Damages
19. 16. 050 Insurance
19. 16. 060 Permits Nontransferable
19. 16. 070 Protective Measures Required
19. 16. 080 Additional Conditions
19. 16. 090 Removal of Encroachments
19. 16. 100 Restoration of Highway
19. 16. 110 Permit Fee
19. 16. 120 Special Deposit
19. 16. 130 General Deposit
19. 16. 140 Deductions from Deposit
19. 16. 150 Refund of Deficiency Payment
19. 16. 160 Cancellation of Permit
19. 16. 170 Exemptions
Section 19. 16.010 Scope of Regulations
The provisions of this chapter apply only to the placing, changing or renewing of an
encroachment.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 1)
Section 19. 16.020 Permit Required
No person shall place, change or renew an encroachment in, under or over any portion
of the public right- of-way, without first obtaining from the City Engineer a written permit in
accordance with this chapter.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 2)
Section 19. 16.030 Application for Permit
Application for a permit shall be made in writing on a form supplied by the City Engineer.
The application shall specify in detail:
A. The location, description and justification for the encroachment and the extent to
which it will interfere with the public use and maintenance of the right- of-way.
B. The duration for which a permit is sought and the date it is requested to be
effective.
C. Such other information that the City Engineer may require.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 3)
19. 16 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 16.040 Permittee Liable for Damages
Every permit shall contain an agreement, signed by the applicant that the City and any
officer or employee thereof shall be saved harmless by the applicant from any liability or
responsibility for any accident, loss or damage to property, injury or death of persons,
happening or occurring as the proximate result of any placement, change or renewal of an
encroachment under the terms of this application and the permit or permits which may be
granted in response thereto; except in a loss, damage or expense and claims for loss, damage
or expense resulting in any manner from the negligent act or acts of the City, its contractors,
officers, agents or employees.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 4)
Section 19. 16.050 Insurance
The permittee shall maintain a policy of liability insurance for both bodily injury and
property damage in an amount of not less than $ 1, 000, 000 for any one occurrence. Worker's
compensation insurance is required for issuance of all permits unless the permittee signs a
declaration stating that he shall not employ any person in any manner so as to become subject
to the worker's compensation laws of the State of California. City development services center
will retain a file of all certificates of insurance furnished with the first permit issued. New
certificates will not be required on subsequent permits if the certificate shows insurance is in
effect.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 5)
Section 19. 16. 060 Permits Nontransferable
Permits issued under this chapter are nontransferable.
Prior Code 27- 8. 1. 6)
Section 19. 16.070 Protective Measures Required
In any permit issued, the City Engineer may specify what lights, barriers, warning signs
or other measures designed to protect the traveling public must be erected by the permittee,
both for the construction period and for a permanent installation. If the permit does not specify
what protective measures are required, every encroachment which in any way interferes with
the public use of any traveled way, shoulder, parking lane, side path or sidewalk, shall be
lighted, barricaded and signed.
Prior Code 27- 8. 2. 1)
Section 19. 16.080 Additional Conditions
The City Engineer may, either at the time of the issuance of the permit or at any time
thereafter until the completion of the work, prescribe such additional conditions as he may deem
necessary for the protection of the highway or for the prevention of undue interference with
traffic or to assure the safety of persons.
Prior Code 27- 8. 2. 2)
Section 19. 16.090 Removal of Encroachments
Permits issued under the authority of this chapter may specify a duration of five days or
less from their effective date, in which case they shall be revocable without notice. Other
19. 16 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
permits issued under the authority of this chapter shall be classified as of indefinite duration and
shall be revocable after notice given to the permittee. In the event a permit is revoked, the City
shall not be held liable for removal, damage or disposal of the permittee' s private property
associated with such permit.
Every permit shall contain an agreement, signed by the applicant, that if the permit
expires, is revoked by the City Engineer, or is vacated or abandoned, the permittee shall, within
a reasonable time and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, restore the highway to the
equivalent or better condition than it was prior to the date that permit became effective or prior
to the date the encroachment was first placed, whichever is earlier.
Prior Code 27- 8. 3. 1)
Section 19. 16. 100 Restoration of Highway
Every permit shall contain an agreement, signed by the applicant, that if the permit expires,
is revoked by the City Engineer, or is vacated or abandoned, the permitee shall, within a
reasonable time and to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, restore the highway to the
equivalent or better condition than it was prior to the date that permit became effective or prior
to the date the encroachment was first placed, whichever is earlier.
Prior Code 27- 8. 3. 2)
Section 19. 16.110 Permit Fee
Every person applying for a permit required by this chapter shall, at the time of making
application for the permit, pay an issuance fee of$ 50.
Prior Code 27- 8. 4. 1)
Section 19. 16. 120 Special Deposit
Each applicant for a permit, in addition to a payment of the issuance fee, shall deposit a
sum with the City Engineer to guarantee the placement of protective measures if required, and
the removal of the encroachment" and restoration of the highway. The amount of the deposit
shall be twice the estimated cost of removing the encroachment, but in no case less than $ 50.
Such a deposit may be waived by the City Engineer if the encroachment existed prior to the
adoption of this chapter.
Prior Code 27- 8. 4. 2)
Section 19. 16. 130 General Deposit
In lieu of making the special deposits required by Section 19. 16. 120, an applicant for
temporary permits having a duration of five days or less, may make and maintain with the City
Engineer a general deposit in an amount estimated by the City Engineer to be sufficient to pay
the cost of permit fees and to guarantee performance as required in Section 19. 16. 100 for future
encroachments. Such a deposit shall not exceed $ 1, 000. While a general deposit is maintained
in the amount sufficient to cover the fees and deposits required for the placing, changing or
renewing of all encroachments sought to be made, the applicant need not make any special
deposit. If, in the opinion of the City Engineer, a general deposit is not sufficient for the proper
protection of the public interest in the public right- of-way on which encroachment permits are
sought, a special deposit may be required under the provisions of Section 19. 16. 120.
Prior Code 27- 8. 4. 3)
19. 16 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 16. 140 Deductions from Deposit
The City shall deduct from any deposit made by the permittee:
A. The permit issuance fee, if that has not otherwise been paid.
B. The cost of any inspections by the City Engineer or his representative.
C. The cost to the City of the placement of any protective measures if required in
the replacement or removal of the encroachment and restoration of the highway if the permittee
fails or refuses to do so.
Prior Code 27- 8. 4. 4)
Section 19. 16.150 Refund of Deficiency Payment
After making the required deductions, the City shall refund to the applicant any amounts
still remaining in the special deposit in the manner as provided by law for the repayment of trust
moneys. If any deposit made is less than sufficient to pay all fees and costs to be deducted, the
permittee shall, upon demand, pay to the City Engineer an amount equal to the deficiency. If the
permittee fails or refuses to pay such deficiency upon demand, the City may recover the same
by action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Until such deficiency is paid in full any additional
City permits shall not be issued to such permittee.
Prior Code 27- 8. 4. 5)
Section 19. 16. 160 Cancellation of Permit
The City Engineer may cancel the permit if the work authorized is not commenced within
30 days of the issuance of the permit and thereafter, if, in the opinion of the City Engineer, is not
diligently prosecuted to completion. Cancellation may be effected by giving written notice
thereof by sending the same to the applicant by ordinary mail to the address shown on the
application.
Prior Code 27- 8. 5. 1)
Section 19. 16.170 Exemptions
The City Engineer may waive permit fees, deposits and insurance requirements if it is
determined the permit is a minor encroachment permit. Minor encroachment permits shall
constitute nonconstruction encroachments such as sidewalk tables, awnings and freestanding
signs.
Prior Code 27- 8. 6. 1)
19. 16 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 18
Locations and Standards for Newsracks on Public Right-of-Way
Sections:
19. 18. 010 Purpose and Intent
19. 18. 020 Definitions
19. 18. 030 Prohibition
19. 18. 040 Standards for Newsracks
19. 18. 050 Permit Required
19. 18. 060 Location of Newsracks
19. 18. 070 Applicability in Residential Zones
19. 18. 080 Enforcement
19. 18. 090 Appeal
19. 18. 100 Public Nuisance
19. 18. 110 Abandonment
19. 18. 120 Violations
19. 18. 130 Constitutionality
Section 19. 18.010 Purpose and Intent
The City Council of the City of Vista finds and declares that:
A. The uncontrolled placement of newsracks in public rights- of-way presents an
inconvenience and danger to the safety and welfare of persons, using such rights- of-way,
including pedestrians, persons entering and leaving vehicles and buildings, and persons
performing essential utility, traffic control and emergency services.
B. Newsracks located so as to cause an inconvenience or danger to persons using
public rights- of-way, and unsightly newsracks located therein, constitute public nuisances.
C. The uncontrolled proliferation of newsracks detracts from the appearance of
streets, sidewalks and adjacent businesses.
D. The uncontrolled placement of newsracks inhibits safe entry and departure of
vehicles.
E. The uncontrolled placement of newsracks impairs the vision and distracts the
attention of motorists and pedestrians, particularly small children, and may cause injury to the
person or property of such persons.
F. The placement of newsracks without a permit based on detailed findings in public
rights- of-way adjacent to residential areas detracts from and reduces neighborhood aesthetics
and increases the exposure of residents to noise, traffic volume and hazards and congestion.
G. The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public safety and general
welfare of persons in the City of Vista in their use of public rights- of-way.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.020 Definitions
Whenever the following words and phrases are used in this chapter, they shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section:
A. " Distributor" means the person responsible for placing and maintaining a
newsrack in a public right- of-way.
19. 18 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
B. " Newsrack" means all self-service or coin- operated box, container, storage unit,
or other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display, sale or distribution of
publications.
C. " Parkway" means the area between the sidewalk and curb of a roadway, and
where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the traveled roadway and the edge of
a public right- of-way. " Parkway" also includes any area within a roadway that is not open to
vehicular travel.
D. " Public right-of-way" means any place of any nature which is dedicated to use
by the public for pedestrian and vehicular travel, and includes, but is not limited to, a street,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, crossing, intersection, parkway, highway, alley, lane, mall, court, way,
avenue, boulevard, road, roadway, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, thoroughfare, park, square,
and any other similar public way.
E. " Roadway" means that part of a public right- of-way that is designated and used
primarily for vehicular travel.
F. " Sidewalk" means that part of a public right-of-way that is designated and
ordinarily used for pedestrian travel.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.030 Prohibition
No person shall knowingly place, install, use or maintain any newsrack which rests in
whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a public right-of-way or which projects onto, into or
over any part of a public right- of-way, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18. 040 Standards for Newsracks
Any newsrack which rests in whole or in part upon, in or on any portion of a public rightof-
way or which projects onto, into or over any part of a public right- of-way shall comply with the
standards set forth in this section:
A. No newsrack shall exceed 48 inches in height, 26 inches in width, or 20 inches
in thickness.
B. No advertising signs or material, other than those dealing with the name of the
publication contained within the newsrack, shall be displayed on the outside of the newsrack.
C. Each newsrack shall be equipped with a coin- return mechanism to permit a
person using the machine to secure an immediate refund in the event he is unable to receive
the publication paid for. The coin- return mechanisms shall be maintained in good working order.
D. Each newsrack shall have affixed to it in a readily visible place, so as to be seen
by anyone using the newsrack, a notice setting forth the name and address of the distributor
and the telephone number of a working telephone service to call to a report a malfunction, or to
secure a refund in the event of a malfunction of the coin- return mechanism, or to give the
notices provided for in this chapter.
E. Each newsrack shall be maintained in a neat and clean condition and in good
repair at all times. Specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each
newsrack shall be serviced and maintained so that:
1. It is reasonably free of dirt and grease.
2. It is reasonably free of chipped, faded, peeling and cracked paint in the
visible painted areas thereof.
3. It is reasonably free of rust and corrosion in the visible unpainted metal
areas thereof.
19. 18 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
4. The clear plastic or glass parts thereof, if any, through which the
publications therein are viewed are unbroken and reasonably free of cracks, dents, blemishes
and discoloration.
5. The paper or cardboard parts or inserts thereof are reasonably free of
tears, peeling or fading.
6. The structural parts thereof are not broken or unduly misshapen.
F. Newsracks in existence on January 1, 1991, shall be allowed to remain at the
same location, provided they are not determined to be a public nuisance or dangerous to the
public safety or general welfare, for a period of one year following adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter. In order to benefit from this section, the Engineering Department within
60 days of the date of the ordinance, shall compile an inventory of such existing newsracks.
Thereafter, all such newsracks shall be required to comply with all provisions of this chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.050 Permit Required
No person shall place, install, use or maintain any newsrack which rests in whole or in
part upon, in or on any portion of the public rights- of-way without having obtained a no fee
encroachment permit from the City Engineer. This permit will be valid for all newsrack locations
approved by the City.
The permittee shall provide the City Engineer with a certificate of liability insurance
naming the City as an additional insured and with a minimum limit or liability set by the risk
manager in accordance with City policy.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.060 Location of Newsracks
Any newsracks which rests in whole or in part upon, in or any portion of a public right-ofway
or which project onto, into or over any part of a public right- of-way shall be located in
accordance with the provisions of this section:
A. No newsrack shall be located in whole or in part in any roadway.
B. Newsracks shall be located at the rear of the sidewalk farthest from the street or
roadway curb ( or, if there is no curb, the edge of the roadway) or the wall of a building.
Newsracks located near the curb shall be located no less than 18 inches nor more than 24
inches from the roadway edge of the curb. Newsracks located adjacent to a building shall be
located parallel to and not more than six inches from the wall thereof. No newsrack shall be
located directly in front of any display window of any building abutting a sidewalk or parkway
except near the curb. No newsrack shall be located on the sidewalk or parkway directly opposite
a newsstand or another newsrack.
C. No newsrack shall be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to any fixture located
in the public right-of-way, except to other newsracks.
D. Newsracks may be placed next to each other, provided that no group of
newsracks shall extend for a distance of more than ten feet along a curb, and a space of not
less than five feet shall separate each group of newsracks.
E. No more than 12 newsracks shall be located on any City block. Newsracks shall
be allowed on a first come, first served basis. If a newsrack is removed from a location, it can
only be replaced if it complies with this section.
F. No newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or maintained:
1. Within a 25- foot sight triangle created by measuring along the curb
beginning at the curb return to form a triangle free of any obstructions in excess of 30 inches in
height in accordance with City of Vista engineering standard design criteria for sight distance for
streets.
19. 18 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
2. Within five feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police call box or other
emergency facility.
3. Within five feet of the outer end of any bus bench.
4. Within three feet ahead or 15 feet to the rear of any sign marking a
designated bus stop.
5. Within three feet of the outer end of any bus bench.
6. At any location whereby the clear space of the passageway of
pedestrians is reduced to less than six feet for a ten- foot commercial sidewalk, but in no case
less than three feet.
7. Within three feet of or on any public area improved with lawn, flowers,
shrubs, trees or other landscaping.
8. Within five feet of a curb painted blue, pursuant to the provisions of
California Vehicle Code Section 21458.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.070 Applicability in Residential Zones
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, newsracks shall be permitted in the
public right- of-way of a public street adjoining land zoned for residential use only if the street is a
prime or major arterial as shown in the circulation element of the General Plan. If no prime or
major arterial is located within one half mile of a residential neighborhood, the distributor may
petition the City Engineer.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.080 Enforcement
Upon a determination by the Code Enforcement Officer that a newsrack has been
installed, used or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, he shall cause
an order to be issued to the distributor to correct the offending condition. The order shall be
telephoned to the distributor and confirmed by mailing a copy of the order by certified mail,
return receipt requested to the distributor at the address shown on the notice required by
Section 19. 18. 040. The order shall specifically describe the offending condition and specify
actions necessary to correct it. If the distributor fails to properly correct the offending condition
within seven days ( excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) after the date of the order,
or to file an appeal as permitted under Section 19. 18. 090. The Code Enforcement Officer shall
cause the offending newsrack to be summarily removed and processed as unclaimed property
under applicable provision of law relating thereto. If the distributor of the offending newsrack
cannot be identified, the newsrack shall be removed immediately and processed as unclaimed
property under applicable provisions of law. The foregoing provisions are not exclusive, and are
in addition to any other penalty or remedy provided by law.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.090 Appeal
Any person or entity aggrieved by a finding, determination, notice order or action taken
under the provisions of this chapter may appeal and shall be advised of his or her right to
appeal to the City Manager. An appeal must be perfected within three working days after
receipt of the notice of any decision or action by filing with the Code Enforcement Division a
letter or appeal briefly stating there in the basis for such appeal. The hearing shall be held on a
date no more than ten days after receipt five days notice of the time and place of the hearing.
The City Manager shall give the appellant and any other interested party the reasonable
19. 18 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
opportunity to be heard, in order to show cause why the determination of the Code Enforcement
Officer should not be upheld. Within five days of the hearing, the City Manager shall make a
written decision. His decision may be appealed to the City Council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within ten calendar days of the date of the decision of the City
Manager. Fees for filing an appeal shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18. 100 Public Nuisance
Any newsrack, or any publication offered for sale or distribution, in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a public nuisance, and may be abated in accordance with applicable
provisions of law.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.110 Abandonment
In the event a newsrack remains empty for a period of 30 continuous days, the same
shall be deemed abandoned, and may be treated in the manner as provided in Section
19. 18. 080 for newsracks in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18.120 Violations
Any person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of
an infraction except for the fourth or each additional violation of a provision within one year
which shall be a misdemeanor. Penalties for a violation of this chapter shall be as designated in
Section 1. 12. 010.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
Section 19. 18. 130 Constitutionality
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or part of this chapter is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the final decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of this chapter. The
City Council declares that it would have adopted this chapter and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or part thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, clauses, phrases, or parts be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
Ord. No. 91- 11, Enacted, 05/ 28/ 91)
19. 18 ( 5) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 20
Underground Utility Districts
Sections:
19. 20.010 Definitions
19. 20.020 Public Hearing by Council
19. 20.030 Council May Designate by Resolution
19. 20.040 Unlawful Acts
19. 20.050 Exception, Emergency or Unusual Circumstances
19. 20.060 Other Exceptions
19. 20.070 Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies
19. 20.080 Responsibility of Utility Companies
19. 20.090 Responsibility of Property Owner
19. 20. 100 Enforcement
19. 20. 110 Responsibility of City
19. 20. 120 Extension of Time
19. 20. 130 Violation - Penalty
Section 19. 20.010 Definitions
Whenever in this chapter the words or phrases defined in this section are used, they
shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the following definitions:
Commission" means the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.
Person" means and includes individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and their
agents and employees.
Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures" means poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces, transformers, insulators,
cutouts, switches, communication circuits, appliances, attachments and appurtenances located
above ground within a district and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar
or associated service.
Underground utility district" or " district" means that area in the city within which poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited as such area is described in
a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 19. 20. 030 of this chapter.
Utility" includes all persons or entities supplying electric, communication, television or
radio reception or similar or associated service by means of electric materials or devices.
Prior Code 30A- 1)
Section 19. 20.020 Public Hearing by Council
The Council may, from time to time, call public hearings to ascertain whether the public
health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated
overhead structures within designated areas of the city and the underground installation of wires
and facilities for supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service. The City
Clerk shall notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment roll
and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at least 15 days prior to
the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open to the public and may be continued from time
to time. At such hearing all persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The
decision of the Council shall be final and conclusive.
Prior Code 30A-2)
19. 20 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 20.030 Council May Designate by Resolution
If, after any such public hearing, the Council finds that the public health, safety or welfare
requires such removal and such underground installation within a designated area, the Council
shall, by resolution, declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a description of the area
comprising such district and shall fix the time within which such removal and underground
installation shall be accomplished and within which affected property owners must be ready to
receive underground service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and
underground installation, having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and equipment
necessary for such removal and for the installation of such underground facilities as may be
occasioned thereby.
Prior Code 30A-3)
Section 19. 20.040 Unlawful Acts
Whenever the Council creates an underground utility district and orders the removal of
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as provided in Section
19. 20.030, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct, place, keep, maintain,
continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures in the
district after the date when such overhead facilities are required to be removed by such
resolution, except as such overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or
occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the underground
work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive utility service as provided in
Section 19. 20.090, and for such reasonable time required to remove such facilities after such
work has been performed and except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
Prior Code 30A-4)
Section 19. 20.050 Exception, Emergency or Unusual Circumstances
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, overhead facilities may be installed and
maintained for a period, not to exceed 30 days, without authority of the Council in order to
provide emergency service. The Council may grant special permission, on such terms as the
Council may deem appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances, without discrimination as to
any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate poles, overhead wires
and associated overhead structures.
Prior Code 30A-5)
Section 19. 20.060 Other Exceptions
This chapter and any resolution adopted pursuant to Section 19. 20.030, unless
otherwise provided in such resolution, shall not apply to the following types of facilities:
A. Any municipal facility or equipment installed under the supervision and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
B. Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting.
C. Overhead wires ( exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any portion of a
district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or connecting to buildings on the
perimeter of a district, when such wires originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires
and associated overhead structures are not prohibited.
D. Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 60, 000 volts.
19. 20 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
E. Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means of a
bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building to another location of
the same building or to an adjacent building without crossing any public street.
F. Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures used by a utility for
furnishing communication services.
G. Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface mounted
transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and concealed ducts.
H. Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used or to
be used in conjunction with construction projects.
Prior Code 30A-6)
Section 19. 20.070 Notice to Property Owners and Utility Companies
Within ten days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant to Section
19. 20.030, the City Clerk shall notify all affected utilities and all persons owning real property
within the district created by such resolution of the adoption thereof. The City Clerk shall further
notify such affected property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication or similar or associated service,
they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility changes on their premises so as to
receive such service from the lines of the supplying utility or utilities at a new location, subject to
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
commission. Notification by the City Clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the resolution
adopted pursuant to Section 19. 20.030, together with a copy of this chapter to affected property
owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to the affected utilities.
Prior Code 30A-7)
Section 19. 20.080 Responsibility of Utility Companies
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a district created
by any resolution adopted pursuant to Section 19. 20. 030, the supplying utility shall furnish that
portion of the conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it
under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the commission.
Prior Code 30A-8)
Section 19. 20.090 Responsibility of Property Owner
Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a building or structure
within a district shall perform construction and provide that portion of the service connection on
his property between the facilities referred to in Section 19. 20.080, and the termination facility
on or within such building or structure being served, all in accordance with applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the commission.
Prior Code 30A-9)
Section 19. 20. 100 Enforcement
In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting such property
does not comply with the provisions of Section 19. 20.090 within the time provided for in the
resolution enacted pursuant to the provisions of Section 19. 20. 030, the City Engineer shall
proceed pursuant to the following:
The City Engineer shall post written notice on the property being served, and shall give
notice in writing to the person in possession of such premises, and a notice in writing to the
19. 20 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
owner thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide the required
underground facilities within ten days after receipt and posting of such notice. Thirty days after
such posting and giving of notice as provided hereinabove, the City Engineer shall have the
authority to order the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and
associated facilities supplying utility service to said property.
Prior Code 30A- 10)
Section 19. 20. 110 Responsibility of City
The City shall remove at its own expense all City-owned equipment from all poles
required to be removed under the provisions of this chapter in ample time to enable the owner
or user of such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the resolution enacted
pursuant to Section 19. 20. 030.
Prior Code 30A- 11)
Section 19.20. 120 Extension of Time
In the event that any act required by this chapter or by a resolution adopted pursuant to
Section 19. 20.030 cannot be performed within the time provided on account of shortage of
materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor disturbances, civil disobedience or
any other circumstances beyond the control of the actor, then the time within which such act will
be accomplished shall be extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation.
Prior Code 30A- 12)
Section 19.20. 130 Violation - Penalty
It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter or failing to comply
with any of its requirements shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable according to the provisions of Section 1. 16. 010 of this code. Each
such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day during any portion of
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted
by such person, and shall be punishable therefore as provided in this chapter.
Prior Code 30A- 13)
19. 20 (4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Chapter 19. 24
Street Trees, Shrubs and Plants
Sections:
19. 24.010 Short Title
19. 24.020 Definitions
19. 24.030 Prohibitions Respecting Street Trees
19. 24.040 Ownership of Street Trees, Duties of Owner
19. 24.050 Director of Public Works - Authority; Powers and Duties
19. 24.060 Master Street Tree Plan; Contents; Where Filed
19. 24.070 Protection of Street Trees During Construction Activity
19. 24.080 Permit for Removal or Planting of Street Tree by Owner
19. 24.090 Street and Tree Inspections
19. 24. 100 Street Tree Trimming Program; Removal of Hazardous Trees
19. 24. 110 Authority for Replacing or Planting Additional Street Trees
19. 24. 120 Authority for City to Trim or Remove Trees, Hedges, Shrubs and Other
Plants on Private Property
19. 24. 130 Liability for Injury or Damage Resulting from Trees
19. 24. 140 Public Nuisances Respecting Street Trees
19. 24. 150 Abatement by Property Owner
19. 24. 160 Owner' s Failure to Abate; Abatement by City
19. 24. 170 Abatement of Nuisance within a Public Street or Right-of-Way
19. 24. 180 All Remedies Cumulative
Section 19. 24.010 Short Title
This chapter shall be known and cited as the " Street Tree Ordinance of the City of Vista."
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.020 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, words, phrases and their derivations
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Director of Public Works" shall mean the Director of Public Works of the City or his or
her authorized agents, assistants or deputies.
Hedge" shall mean any group of shrubs planted in a line or in groups such that the
branches of one shrub intermingle with the branches of any other shrub in the line or group.
Official street trees" are those trees approved as part of the Master Street Tree Plan
of the City to be planted within a street.
Owner" shall mean the owner of a fee simple title of the property on which a street tree
is planted.
Parkway strip" shall mean that portion of a public street between the curb and the
sidewalk or the sidewalk and the property line or that portion of the public right- of-way which is
not designed or used for vehicular or pedestrian travel.
Street" shall include every way maintained by a public agency and set apart for public
travel or use in the City, including the curb, gutter, planting strip, sidewalk area, easements and
rig hts- of-way.
Street tree" includes any tree or shrub of a height greater than six feet above the
adjacent ground level, by whomever owned or planted, growing within a street or public place,
as defined in this section.
19. 24 ( l) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Unofficial street trees" are all street trees which are not on the current Master Street
Tree Plan.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.030 Prohibitions Respecting Street Trees
A. Removal or Planting of Street Trees. No person, other than the Director of Public
Works or an authorized employee or agent of the City, shall remove or plant any street tree
within the City without first having obtained a no-fee permit for such removal or planting
pursuant to Section 19. 24. 080.
B. Damage, Destruction or Injury.
1. No person shall willfully or intentionally damage, destroy or injure* any
street tree of the City. Pruning a street tree, when undertaken to maintain its normal shape and
growth pattern, to remove dead or diseased limbs or branches, or to remove roots, limbs or
branches that present an immediate hazard or threat of damage or injury, shall not constitute a
violation of this prohibition or Chapter 12. 04 of this Code. * Note: For state laws respecting
injury to street trees, see Civil Code Section 3346; Code of Civil Procedure Sections 733, 734;
Penal Code Sections 600, 622; and Streets & Highways Code Section 730. 5.
2. No person shall:
a. Cause or suffer any brine water, oil, liquid, dye or other substance
harmful or deleterious to vegetation to lie, leak, pour, flow or drip upon or into the soil under any
street tree, nor upon any sidewalk, road or pavement at a point from which such substances
may, by lying upon or by flowing, dripping or seeping into such soil, injure or damage a street
tree.
b. Place, or cause to be placed, or maintain any stone, cement or
other impervious substance within the drip line of any street tree such that it will impede the
seepage of irrigation or natural water or air to the roots of any street tree, except upon prior
written approval from the Director of Public Works.
C. Build any fire or place any internal combustion engine or electric
motor in such a manner that the heat, vapors or fumes therefrom will cause damage or injure
any street tree.
d. Suffer any leakage from any natural gas pipe that will cause
damage to any street tree.
e. Place, apply, affix or attach any wire, rope, sign, paint or other
substance, material, structure, thing or device of any kind to any street tree, or to a tree guard or
stake intended for the protection of a street tree.
C. Interference with Director of Public Works. No person shall interfere with the
Director of Public Works or any person acting under his or her authority, while engaged in
planting, mulching, pruning, trimming, spraying, treating, removing or otherwise treating any
street tree, or in removing any stone, cement or other substance from or about the trunk of a
street tree.
D. Planting Street Trees in Violation of Street Tree Plan. Upon adoption of the
Master Street Tree Plan by the City Council, no person shall plant any tree or shrub in within a
public right- of-way of the City in violation of, or contrary to, the approved Master Street Tree
Plan.
E. Disturbing, Damaging, or Removing Street Landscaping. No person shall
disturb, damage, or remove any plant or other materials within any City street landscaping,
unless authorized by the Director of Public Works. This prohibition shall include, without being
limited to, picking or removing of flowers, seeds, leaves; digging in or damaging turf or flower
19. 24 ( 2) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
beds; or defacing, removing, breaking, or damaging any non- plant materials, including gravel,
stone, rock, or equipment used in the landscaping.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.040 Ownership of Street Trees, Duties of Owner
A. Rebuttable Presumption of Ownership. There exists a rebuttable presumption
that the owner of a street tree is the owner of the fee title of the land on which the tree is
growing. The owner of a street tree is presumed to be the fee owner of the adjacent parcel
abutting that public right- of-way or street easement. A tree growing on the boundary between
two or more abutting parcels is presumed to be owned in common by the owners of each parcel
defined by the boundary.
B. Owner' s Duty to Maintain Street Trees. The owner of a street tree is charged
with the duty to properly maintain the street tree, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Specifically, the duties of the owner shall include the following:
1. Prevent the street tree or its limbs, branches or roots, from creating or
causing any hazard or dangerous condition to the public, person, or property of another.
2. Notify the Director of Public Works, or an authorized employee, of the
occurrence of any damage to a street tree growing within the right-of-way or parkway, or the
existence of any dangerous condition with respect to such tree.
3. Water any street tree growing within the right- of-way or parkway strip.
Without limiting or affecting the owner' s obligation, the City may from time to time water such
trees at the discretion of the Director of Public Works.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.050 Director of Public Works-Authority; Powers and Duties
A. The Director of Public Works is charged with the enforcement of this chapter and
the performance of municipal functions as herein established.
B. The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to plant, trim, spray,
preserve and remove street trees and shrubs and grassy areas to insure safety or preserve the
symmetry and beauty of streets and public places.
C. The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to supervise all work done
under a permit issued in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
D. The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to affix reasonable
conditions to the granting of a permit hereunder and to require that applications for permits
contain such information as he or she shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued.
E. The Director of Public Works shall issue any permit provided for in this chapter
when he or she finds that the desired action or treatment is necessary and that the proposed
method and workmanship are satisfactory.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.060 Master Street Tree Plan; Contents; Where Filed
The Director of Public Works shall develop a Master Street Tree Plan of the City. The
plan shall include the following: a map or plat of all City streets, a description of the varieties and
species of trees that are permitted to be planted within a City street right- of-way of each City
street, a description of the varieties and species of trees that are prohibited from being planted
within a City street right- of-way, minimum specifications, conditions or requirements for planting
street trees ( e. g., separation requirements, distances from pavement, root barrier requirements,
19. 24 ( 3) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
etc.). Upon completion, the plan shall be submitted to the City Council for approval. From time
to time, the Master Street Tree Plan may be changed, modified, altered or amended by the City
Council. A copy of the Master Street Tree Plan shall be kept on file in the Office of the City
Clerk.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.070 Protection of Street Trees During Construction Activity
Any person undertaking any demolition, construction, grading, or similar activity in
proximity to any street tree, whether within the public right-of-way or adjacent to it, shall install
and maintain adequate protective guards or devices, and take other protective measures, to
prevent accidental injury or damage to the street tree within the vicinity of the work being
performed. All such persons shall obey and conform to the orders and directions given by the
Director of Public Works, or an authorized representative, as to the protective guards or devices
to be installed and the protective measures to be taken.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.080 Permit for Removal or Planting of Street Tree by Owner
A. Permit Required. The owner of property abutting any public street or right- of-way
may remove or plant a street tree within the street or right- of-way upon obtaining a no-fee permit
for such removal or planting from the Director of Public Works.
B. Permit Application. Application for such permit shall be made on a form
approved by the Director of Public Works. The removal permit application shall specify the
street tree proposed to be removed, the condition of the tree, and the reasons for such removal.
The planting permit application shall specify such information about the tree proposed to be
planted as the Director of Public Works shall require. Upon review of the permit application, the
Director of Public Works may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the permit. The Director
of Public Works may condition the approval for removal of a street tree on replacement by one
or more street trees, in conformance with the Master Street Tree Plan. The Director of Public
Works may impose such other reasonable conditions as he or she may deem to be in the public
interest. A permit for removal or planting of a street tree shall not be valid after 180 days from
the date of issuance.
C. Review of Decision by City Manager. The decision of the Director of Public
Works shall be subject to review and reconsideration by the City Manager, upon written request
of the property owner, delivered to the City Manager within ten days of the date of decision by
the Director of Public Works. In the event of such review, the decision of the City Manager shall
be final.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24.090 Street and Tree Inspections
The Director of Public Works is charged with the duty and responsibility periodically to
inspect the streets and public ways of the City to determine whether there exists an immediate
or proximate hazard or dangerous condition of, or whether the public access is inconvenienced
or impeded by, any street tree or street landscaping, or any tree, shrub, hedge, or other plant
growing on property adjacent to any street or public right- of-way. In performing this duty, the
Director of Public Works, or a person authorized to perform such duty, may enter upon any
private property during normal or reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
19. 24 ( 4) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 24. 100 Street Tree Trimming Program; Removal of Hazardous Trees
The Director of Public Works shall undertake an annual program for pruning and
trimming limbs and branches of street trees that are dead, diseased, presenting a hazard to
persons or property, or that impede or interfere with the public convenience and unencumbered
use of the streets and public ways of the City. The Director may also cause any street tree to
be removed, if it is found to be dead or diseased or to constitute a hazard to the public or to any
person or property. The scope and extent of the annual program shall be subject to the
availability and appropriation of funds for the purpose by the City Council. The City Council may
authorize general revenues for the purpose, or it may levy annual assessments on property
within the City under authority of existing City-wide assessment districts. The appropriation of
revenues from such assessments shall be utilized for the purpose of undertaking activities of
general benefit, in addition to benefitting property, within the City. The undertaking of this
annual program by the City shall not be deemed to have assumed any duty, or to have relieved
any property owner from any of the duties imposed by law or under Section 19. 24.040 above.
With respect to the removal of any street trees pursuant to this section, the decision of the
Director of Public Works made in accordance with this section shall be final.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 110 Authority for Replacing or Planting Additional Street Trees
As part of the annual street tree trimming program described in Section 19. 24. 090
above, the Director of Public Works is authorized to replace any street tree removed by the City
with one or more trees of appropriate species and size, consistent with the approved Master
Street Tree Plan. With the written consent of the owner of property abutting any street or public
way, or upon the written request of such owner, the Director of Public Works may plant
additional street trees within the public right-of-way, consistent with the approved Master Street
Tree Plan, and subject to the availability of appropriations made by the City Council for the
purpose. With
respect to the replacement or addition of any street trees, the decision of the Director of Public
Works made in accordance with this section shall be final.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 120 Authority for City to Trim or Remove Trees, Hedges, Shrubs and
Other Plants on Private Property
Pursuant to the authority granted under the California Tree Planting Act of 1931,
commencing with Section 22000 of the California Streets and Highways Code, the Director of
Public Works is authorized to undertake the following activities.
A. Removal of Trees. The Director of Public Works, and any assistants or agents,
is authorized and empowered to enter upon any property within the City for the purpose of
removing any tree or any part of any tree which appears to be dead, is liable to fall, is
dangerous or is an obstruction to public travel, whether or not the tree is on any private property
and overhangs or projects into any street or is in any street, park, parkway or other public
grounds of the City.
B. Notice for Removal of Tree, Emergency Exception. Except in the case of
manifest public danger and immediate necessity, no tree shall be wholly cut down or removed
unless ten days' notice in writing is given to the owner, tenant, or occupant, or agent of the
owner, tenant, or occupant of the land upon which the tree is situated. If the owner, tenant, or
occupant, or an agent thereof, cannot be found or located, such notice may be given by
19. 24 ( 5) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
registered mail, first class postage pre- paid, to the last known owner of record of the property,
as such owner is shown on the most recent assessment roll of the County Assessor.
C. Owner' s Objection to Removal; Determination by City Manager. If, within seven
days after notice has been given under Subdivision B above, the owner, tenant, occupant, or
agent files with the Director of Public Works a written objection to the removal, the Director shall
not cut down or remove the tree and shall instead set the matter for a hearing before the City
Manager. The objecting party shall then be given a further written notice of the time, date and
place of the hearing at least ten days in advance of such hearing. At the hearing, the Director of
Public Works shall present to the City Manager the reasons for removing the tree. The
objecting party shall have a reasonable opportunity to address the City Manager and to respond
to all information presented to the City Manager, following which the City Manager shall
determine whether or not the tree shall be removed. The decision of the City Manager shall be
final.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 130 Liability for Injury or Damage Resulting From Trees
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed, construed or interpreted to have imposed
liability upon the City, or upon any of its officers and employees, for property damage or injury
arising from the performance or failure to perform any authority, duty or responsibility assigned
herein. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to the effect that the City has
assumed any duty or liability that is imposed by law or this chapter upon an owner of property.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to have relieved a property owner from
any duty or liability that is otherwise attributable to the owner.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 140 Public Nuisances with Respect to Street Trees
The following are declared to be public nuisances:
A. Any dead, diseased, infested, or dying tree on public or private property so near
to any street as to constitute a danger to street trees or to the public using any public street,
sidewalk, or right- of-way.
B. Any tree, or a part thereof including any roots, limbs or branches, that is unsafe
and constitutes a hazard to the life, health or safety of the public, or any property, or which
constitutes a source of infection for disease or insects that may endanger the health or life of
other trees.
C. Any tree growing on any property that is of a type or species apt to destroy,
impair or otherwise interfere with any street improvements, sidewalks, curbs, approved street
trees or other official street trees, gutters, sewers, other public improvements, including utility
mains, pipes or lines or their appurtenances, the risk of which cannot be effectively and
economically mitigated without the removal of the tree.
D. Vines or climbing plants growing into or over street trees, public hydrants, poles,
or electroliers.
E. Any tree that is infested, infected or in danger of becoming infested or infected
with objectionable insects, scales, fungus or growth injurious to crops, ornamental vegetation, or
trees.
F. Any plant or shrub that is growing in a manner inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations of Section 18. 56.060 of the Development Code.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
19. 24 ( 6) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Municipal Code
Section 19. 24. 150 Abatement by Property Owner
The owner of property on which a nuisance defined under Section 19. 24. 140 is found to
exist, upon receiving a notice to abate such nuisance from the Director of Public Works, shall
pursue reasonable measures with due diligence to abate the nuisance. Prior to abating any
nuisance requiring the removal of any street tree, the owner shall first apply for and obtain a
permit from the Director of Public Works in accordance with Section 19. 24. 080.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 160 Owner's Failure to Abate; Abatement by City
A. Owner' s Failure to Abate Within a Reasonable Time. If, after receiving a notice
to abate a nuisance defined in Section 19. 24. 140, an owner has not abated such nuisance
within the time specified for such abatement by the Director of Public Works, the Director of
Public Works shall prepare and issue a Notice of Hearing pursuant to Section 8. 36.080 of this
Code. Thereafter, the proceedings for determination by the City Council of a public nuisance by
the City Council and abatement thereof found in Chapter 8. 36, commencing with Section
8. 36.090 shall be conducted.
B. Upon the conclusion of the proceedings set forth in Chapter 8. 36, if the City
Council determines that a public nuisance exists, the Director of Public Works shall proceed
with the abatement in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8. 36.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 170 Abatement of Nuisance within a Public Street or Right-of-Way
Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 19. 24. 150 and 19. 24. 160, if a nuisance
defined in Section 19. 24. 140 is found to exist within a public street or right- of-way, the Director
of Public Works is authorized to proceed with the abatement of such nuisance. The authority to
abate under this section is subject to the discretion of the Director of Public Works, in
consideration of the amount of funds appropriated and available for such purposes by the City
Council. This section shall not be construed or interpreted as relieving the owner of the property
abutting such public street or right- of-way on which the nuisance is found from the duty to abate
such nuisance, pursuant to Section 19. 24. 150.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
Section 19. 24. 180 All Remedies Cumulative
The remedies prescribed in this chapter are cumulative and in addition to all other
remedies available under this code or authorized by law.
Ord. No. 2008- 2, Enacted, 1/ 8/ 08)
19. 24 ( 7) Vista 7/ 19/ 11)
Vista Development Code Index
Television, radio, broadcast antennas,
DEVELOPMENT CODE INDEX commercial 18. 58. 530
Television, radio, reception antennas 18. 58. 510
A
APARTMENT PROJECT
A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE CONVERSION
See also SINGLE- FAMILY SUBDIVISION
See CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
LOT AVERAGING
zoNEs APPEALS
Building height regulations 18. 10. 020, Building code decisions, alternative methods
18. 10. 060 16. 06.040
Established 18. 06.010 Dangerous building abatement code decisions
Permitted uses 18. 10. 010 16. 16. 030
Utilities undergrounding 18. 10. 070 Excavation permit decisions 17. 52. 070
Yard regulations, front yard 18. 10. 030 Fire code decisions 16. 40.490
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 10. 050 Flood damage prevention provisions decisions
Yard regulations, side yard 18. 10. 040 16. 48.200
General plan interpretations 18. 48. 040
ADDRESS Hazardous waste facility, special use permit
See BUILDING, HOUSE NUMBERS 18. 75. 110
FIRE CODE ADDRESS REQUIREMENTS Historic preservation decisions 15. 12. 170
STREET NAMES Home occupation permit decisions 18. 58.480
Housing code decisions 16. 12. 030
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES MHP zone decisions 18. 18. 080
See also Municipal Code Chapter 9. 12 Minor subdivision, decisions generally
Amortization of Legal Nonconforming
17. 76. 160
adult-oriented Business Uses 18. 84. 040 Minor subdivision, filing time extension denial
Definitions 18. 84. 020
17. 76. 180
Extension of Time for Termination of Legal Off-street parking facilities, reciprocal, decisions
non- conforming adult-oriented business
18. 54. 130
use 18. 84. 050 Outdoor lighting facilities, fixtures decisions
Minimum proximity requirements 18. 84. 030
18. 54. 130
Purpose 18. 84. 010 Outdoor lighting facilities, fixtures decisions
Subsequent location of sensitive uses 18. 84. 060
18. 58.260
PRD zone permit decisions 18. 24. 110
AGRICULTURAL ZONE
Q zone site development plan decisions
18. 04. 150
See A- 1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE Satellite antenna permit decisions 18. 74. 260
Site development plan approval, disapproval
ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS decisions 18. 64. 080
See STREET IMPROVEMENTS SP zone decision 18. 14. 070
Special land use minor use permit decisions
AN IMALS 18. 66.030
See also PETS Special use permit, grant, denial decisions
Shelters, structures, location restrictions 18. 74. 180
18. 58.470 Specific plan lines, building, structure within,
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 050 nonconforming, alteration, enlargement
decisions 19. 12. 090
ANNEXED PROPERTY Subdivision, decisions generally 17. 88.050
See ZONES
Subdivision, park, recreational facilities fees,
land dedication decisions 17. 32. 130
ANTENNA HEIGHT REGULATIONS Subdivision, tentative map decisions, persons
Amateur radio antennas 18. 58.520 adversely affected initiation 17. 12. 120
Satellite antenna 18. 58.500
Surface mining provisions decisions 15. 16. 140
1 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Swimming pool, spa, hot tub code decisions
16. 06.040 BOND
Zoning variance decision 18. 74. 090 Building, moved 16. 08.030
Grading, erosion control, erosion control
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION security 17. 56. 270
Activities, services permitted 18. 62. 040 Grading, erosion control, generally 17. 56. 260
Combined uses, permitted when 18. 62. 050 Landscaping 18. 56. 100
Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 62. 090 Street improvements completion 16. 56. 070
Development standards 18. 62.070 Surface mining reclamation 15. 16. 080
Location, regulations 18. 62. 060
Nonconforming, lawful when 18. 62. 110 BRIDGE, MAJOR THOROUGHFARE
Purpose of provisions 18. 62. 010 CONSTRUCTION AREA OF BENEFIT
Signs, regulations 18. 62. 080
Establishment, confirmation 17. 48. 100
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION
Establishment, hearing 17. 48. 070
Protests, filing 17. 48. 080
SPECIAL USE PERMIT Protests, majority, effect 17. 48.090
Application, contents 18. 62. 030
Issuance, posting 18. 62. 100 BRIDGE, MAJOR THOROUGHFARE
Required when, compliance requirements CONSTRUCTION FEES
18. 62.020
See also SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS,
AVIARY
SUPPLEMENTAL
Circulation element, applicability 17. 48. 030
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 060 Consideration in lieu, conditions 17. 48.050
Definitions 17. 48.020
B - Deposit, fund, use, limitations 17. 48. 120
Established, applicability 17. 48. 100
BLASTING AGENTS Exempt activities designated 17. 48. 110
See FIRE CODE
Payment, due date 17. 48. 040
Purpose of provisions 17. 48. 010
BLOCK PARTIES AND STREET
Required when 17. 48.060
EVENTS, PERMITS FOR BUENA VISTA CREEK
Administrative rules 12. 12. 140
See SETBACK REGULATIONS
Appeals and reconsideration 12. 12. 070
Applicability 12. 12. 010
BUILDING
Block parties, standards for issuance of permit
12. 12. 030
See also Specific Subject
Definitions 12. 12. 02
NONCONFORMING BUILDING
Fees 12. 12. 120
NONCONFORMING USES
Indemnification 12. 12. 100
PUBLIC BUILDINGS, USES
Insurance, exemption 12. 12. 100
Commercial, sidewalk arcade permitted, special
Late applications 12. 12. 050
use permit required 18. 58. 070
Permit violation, unwelcome participation
12. 12. 160 gUILDING ACCESSORY
Permits, standards for issuance or denial, Definitions 18. 02.045
notification 12. 12. 060 Location, regulations 18. 58. 270
Regulations generally 12. 12. 150
Removal 12. 12. 130 BUILDING ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Revocation of permit 12. 12. 090 Adoption 16. 06. 010
Street event permits, application, information Compliance survey inspection 16. 06. 080
required, timing, issuance 12. 12. 040 Definitions 16. 06.020
Street event permit, content and conditions, Exceptions 16. 06. 060
rules and regulations 12. 12. 080 Moved and temporary buildings, regulates
Violation, penalty 12. 12. 170 permit requests 16. 06. 030
Permit fees 16. 06. 080
2 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Plans, retention 16. 06. 070 19. 04.090
Plan review fees 16. 06. 080 Purpose of provisions 19. 04. 010
Shake shingles 16. 06. 030 Violation, penalty 19. 04. 120
Temporary certificate 16. 06. 090
Violation, penalty 16. 06. 050 BUILDING PERMIT
Wastewater disposal 16. 06. 070 See BUILDING CODE
BUILDING CODE BUILDING SITE AREA
Adoption, 16. 08. 010 Automobile service station 18. 62.070
Appeals Board, created, composition, C- 1 zone 18. 38. 070
appointment 16. 06.040 C- 2 zone 18. 40. 070
Condemnation, County regulations 16. 44.010 C- 3 zone 18. 42. 060
Conservation 16. 14. 010 Conflicting provisions, resolutions 18. 58. 220
Fire extinguishing, installation 16. 08. 140 E- 1 zone 18. 08. 060
Historic Building Code 16. 10. 010 IP zone 18. 46. 060
Roofing requirements 16. 08. 150 M- 1 zone 18. 44. 080
Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010 Main building, regulations 18. 58. 140
Minimum, meeting 18. 58. 110, 18. 72. 090
BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATIONS O zone 18. 12. 040
See also ANTENNA HEIGHT REGULATIONS O- P zone 18. 36. 080
A- 1 zone 18. 10. 020, 18. 10. 060 O- R zone 18. 12. 100
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060 PRD zone 18. 24. 080
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060 Q zone 18. 16. 110
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050 R- 1 zone 18. 28. 060
Conformity, requirements generally 18. 06. 110 R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 060
E- 1 zone 18. 08. 020 R- M zone 18. 34.060
IP zone 18. 46. 060
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 040 BUILDING SITE AREA REDUCTION
O- P zone 18. 36.040 Public buildings, uses, exclusive use,
O- R zone 18. 12. 110 regulations 18. 58.460
Q zone 18. 16. 100 Public use acquisition, regulations 18. 58.420
R- 1 zone 18. 28. 020 Restrictions, below minimum area 18. 58. 440
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 020 Restrictions, generally 18. 58. 400
R- M zone 18. 34.020 Street widening purposes, regulations
Signs, generally 18. 52. 040 18. 58.450
Signs, specific classifications 18. 52. 080-
18. 52.300 BUILDING SITE REGULATIONS
BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATIONS,
Conformity, requirements generally 18. 06. 140
EXCEEDING BUILDING, DANGEROUS
Prohibitions generally 18. 58. 120 See Dangerous Buildings Abatement Code
Story, additional, permitted when 18. 58. 130
Structures permitted, special use permit BUILDING, TEMPORARY USES
required 18. 58. 150
Permit, modular, commercial coaches, storage
Structures permitted, without permit 18. 58. 140
containers, maritime cargo containers 18. 58. 580
BUILDING, HOUSE NUMBERS BUSINESS LICENSE
See also FIRE CODE ADDRESS
Home occupations 18. 58. 480
REQUIREMENTS
Assignment, determination, authority 19. 04.060
Assignment, procedure generally 19. 04. 080
C
Installation, duty designated 19. 04. 110
Installation, specifications, requirements C- 1 COMMERCIAL ZONE
generally 19. 04. 100 See also ZONES
Obtaining, prerequisite to permits issuance Building site area 18. 38. 070
3 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Development standards 18. 38. 060 Rear yard 18. 47. 060
Established 18. 06.010 Requirements for site development plans
Minor uses 18. 38. 030 18. 47. 140
Permitted uses 18. 38. 010 Side yard 18. 47. 050
Prohibited uses 18. 38. 040 Signs 18. 47. 120
Uses, regulations generally 18. 38.050 Utilities 18. 47. 110
Utilities, undergrounding 18. 38.080
CLUB
C- 2 COMMERCIAL ZONE Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 080
See also ZONES
Building site area 18. 40. 070 COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS
Business, enclosure requirements, exceptions See FIRE CODE
18. 40.030
Development standards 18. 40. 060 COMMERCIAL COACH, USE WITHIN
Established 18. 06.010
CITY
Minor uses 18. 40. 040
Permitted uses 18. 40. 010 Applicability of provisions 18. 70. 020
Prohibited uses 18. 40. 050
Criteria, regulations 18. 70. 040
Special uses 18. 40. 020
Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 70. 010
Utilities undergrounding 18. 40. 080
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 090
C- 3 COMMERCIAL ZONE COMMERCIAL ZONE
See also ZONES
See C- 1 COMMERCIAL ZONE
Building site area 18. 41. 060
C- 2 COMMERCIAL ZONE
Development standards 18. 42. 050
C- 3 COMMERCIAL ZONE
Established 18. 06.010
Minor uses 18. 42. 030 CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
Permitted uses 18. 42. 010 See also MOBILEHOME PARK CONVERSION
Prohibited uses 18. 42. 040 Permitted when, criteria 18. 60.040
Special uses 18. 42. 040 Rules, regulations generally 18. 60. 050
Uses, limitations generally 18. 42. 070
Utilities undergrounding 18. 42.080 CONDOMINIUM HOUSING
See also CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
CARNIVAL MOBILEHOME SUBDIVISION
Temporary use, permit, requirements generally SUBDIVISION FINAL MAP
18. 76.010 Approval, denial, hearing 18. 60. 060
Establishment, procedures designated
CHILDREN BOARDING 18. 60.010
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 100
Standards, modification when 18. 60. 080
Subdivision maps, required when 18. 60. 020
CHINCHILLA
Subdivision maps, waiver when 18. 60. 030
Raising, special land use, regulations 18. 66. 070
CONDOMINIUM HOUSING PERMIT
CIVIC ACTIVITY ZONE
Nullified when 18. 60.070
Application 18. 47. 010
Required when, application procedure, fees
Area 18. 47. 070
18. 60.020
Development requirements 18. 47.090
CONTAINERS, STORAGE, MARITIME
Distance between buildings 18. 47.080
Front yards abutting public or private streets CARGO
18. 47.040 See BUILDINGS TEMPORARY USES
Height limit 18. 47. 030
Landscaping 18. 47. 100
Parking 18. 47. 130
Permitted uses 18. 47. 020
Prior approvals 18. 47. 150
4 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
p _ R- M zone 18. 34.070
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DEVELOPMENT
ABATEMENT CODE
See Specific Subject
Adoption, on file 16. 16. 010
BRIDGE, MAJOR THOROUGHFARE
Definitions 16. 16. 020
CONSTRUCTION FEES
Interpretation, appeals 16. 16. 030
DRAINAGE FACILITIES FEES,
Unlawful buildings 16. 16. 040
LOCAL PLANNED
Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010
HILLSIDE STREET DECLARATIONS
SPECIFIC PLAN LINES
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SUBDIVISION
ABATEMENT CODE AMENDMENTS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Section 205 16. 16. 030 Adoption, effect 18. 68. 130
Amendment, cancellation, procedure 18. 68. 140
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS Contents 18. 68. 120
ABATEMENT CODE APPEALS Fees 18. 68. 110
BOARD Initiation, authority 18. 68. 030
Established, purpose 16. 16. 030
Purpose of provisions 18. 68. 010
Recordation 18. 68. 110
DAYCARE
Required when 18. 68. 020
State, federal regulations, compliance required
Density bonuses and concessions for day care
18. 68. 160
facilities 18. 90. 060
Zoning map designation, effect 18. 68. 150
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 100
DAYCARE, FAMILY DAY CARE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
HOMES
APPLICATION
Initiation, authority 18. 68. 030
Appeal, Termination, Revocation 18. 88. 090
Application 18. 88. 050 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Definitions 18. 88. 020
QppLICATION HEARING,
Development, Operational Standards 18. 88.070
Exclusions 18. 88. 030 CITY COUNCIL
Findings for Approval of Minor Use Permit Action conclusive 18. 68. 090
18. 88.080 Decision, announcement, order 18. 68. 080
Purpose 18. 88. 010 Decision, notice to applicant 18. 68. 100
Review 18. 88.060 Required when, notice 18. 68. 070
Use Chart 18. 88. 040
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
DENSITY BONUSES - RESIDENTIAL APPLICATION HEARING,
Additional bonuses and concessions for day care PLANNING COMMISSION
facilities 18. 90. 060 Date, time limits 18. 68. 050
Amount of density bonus 18. 90. 040 Decision, recommendation 18. 68. 060
Application process 18. 90. 070 Required, notice 18. 68.040
Decision, findings, conditions 18. 90. 080
Definitions 18. 90. 020 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Fees, expenses, reimbursement 18. 90. 090
Applicability, effective date 17. 60. 100
Number of concessions 18. 90.050
Collection , due date 17. 60. 090
Projects eligible 18. 90. 030
Community facilities needs assessments,
Purpose 18. 90. 010
applicability, use 17. 60. 080 Regulation, parking, interpretations, enforcement
Designated 17. 60. 050
18. 90. 100
Findings 17. 60.020
DENSITY REGULATIONS
Proceeds, disposition, allocation 17. 60. 030
Purpose of provisions 17. 60. 010
PRD zone 18. 24. 060 Repeal, prior fees 17. 60. 040
5 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Waiver, reduction, commercial, industrial Construction, findings 17. 40. 020
revenue- generating developments 17. 60. 070 Construction, reimbursement agreement
Waiver, reduction, reimbursement, certain 17. 40.080
improvements 17. 60. 060
DRIVEWAY IMPROVEMENTS
See STREET IMPROVEMENTS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Automobile service station 18. 62.070 DWELLING UNIT FLOOR AREA
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060 Requirements, designation 18. 58. 550
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060 Requirements, determination 18. 58. 560
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
IP zone 18. 46. 060 E _
Landscaping 18. 56. 060
MHP zone 18. 18. 090
Off-street parking spaces, facilities 18. 54. 120 E- 1 ESTATES ZONE
O- P zone 18. 36. 130 See also SINGLE- FAMILY SUBDIVISION
PRD zone 18. 24. 080 LOT AVERAGING ZONES
Q zone 18. 16. 100 SECOND UNITS
Residential care home 18. 58. 100 Building height regulations 18. 08. 020
R- M zone 18. 34. 110 Building site area 18. 08. 060
Satellite antenna 18. 58. 500 Established 18. 06. 010
Signs, generally 18. 52.040 Permitted uses 18. 08. 010
SP zone 18. 14. 050 Utilities undergrounding 18. 08. 070
SPI zone 18. 20. 030 Yard regulations, front yard 18. 08.030
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 08. 050
DISABILITIES Yard regulations, side yard 18. 08. 040
Appeal of determination 18. 86. 060
Applicability 18. 86. 020 EATING FACILITIES, OUTDOOR
Application requirements 18. 86. 030 Special land use regulations 18. 66. 120
Finding and decision 18. 86. 050
Purpose 18. 86. 010 ELECTRICAL CODE
Review authority and procedure 18. 86.040 Adoption, on file 16. 28. 010
Enforcement, scope, authority 16. 28. 020
DRAINAGE AREAS, LOCAL, NM, NMC cables permitted when 16. 28. 040
PLANNED Rules, regulations generally, permit
See also DRAINAGE FACILITIES FEES,
requirements 16. 28. 030
LOCAL, PLANNED Violation, penalty 16. 28. 030, 16. 64. 010
Established, map, report 17. 40.010
ELECTRICAL CODE ADDITIONS
DRAINAGE FACILITIES FEES, Article 95 16. 28. 030
LOCAL, PLANNED
Adjustment, procedures 17. 40. 060
Applicability, drainage area designated ELEVATOR SAFETY CONSTRUCTION
17. 40.030 CODE
Payment prerequisite, assessment rate, Adoption 16. 18. 010
deposit 17. 40.050
Purpose, computation, collection 17. 40. 040 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT
Use, limitations 17. 40.070 Application, contents 19. 16. 030
Cancellation when, procedure 19. 16. 160
DRAINAGE FACILITIES, LOCAL, Fees, issuance fee 19. 16. 110
PLANNED Minor, regulations 19. 16. 170
See also SUBDIVISION DRAINAGE Nontransferable 19. 16. 060
FACILITIES Required when 19. 16. 020
Applicability of provision, exceptions 17. 40. 090 Term, expiration, revocation, effect 19. 16. 090
6 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Emergency facilities, interference prohibited
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT 7. 52.200
DEPOSITS Emergency work, procedure 17. 52. 260
Deductions, use 19. 16. 140
Hours permitted, inconvenience minimization
General, purpose, amount 19. 16. 130
17. 52. 180
Remaining, refund when 19. 16. 150 Indemnification of city 17. 52. 030
Special, purpose, amount 19. 16. 120 Inspections, administrative authority 17. 52.280
Material, disposition 17. 52. 170
ENCROACHMENTS, PUBLIC RIGHTSMonument
protection, restoration 17. 52. 270
OF-WAY
Pavement, removal, replacement, regulations
17. 52. 190
See also ENCROACHMENT PERMIT Pavement, temporary, requirements 17. 52. 250
Applicability of provisions 19. 16. 010 Required when 17. 52. 080
Damages, liability 19. 16. 040 Shoring, support requirements 17. 52. 150
Insurance requirements 19. 16. 050 Standard specifications, designated,
Protective measures, additional conditions when conformance 17. 52. 120
19. 16. 080 Substructure map, requirements 17. 52.290
Protective measures, requirements generally Utilities protection, utility company notification
19. 16. 070 17. 52.210
Removal, on permit revocation 19. 16. 090 Water runoff, nuisance water, regulations
Removal, restoration requirements when 17. 52. 160
19. 16. 100
ENERGY CODE
EXCAVATION PERMIT
Appeals, scope, procedure 17. 52. 070
Adoption 16. 26.010 Application, contents 17. 52. 090
Modification, revocation, grounds, procedure
ENERGY, SOLAR 17. 52.060
See SOLAR ENERGY CODE
EXCAVATION PERMIT DEPOSITS
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY See also EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES,
EIR preparation thresholds, determination DEPOSITS
15. 04.030 Required, amount, exception 17. 52. 110
Environmental assessment, responsibility, costs Requirements, regulations generally 17. 52. 120
liability 15. 04. 040
Environmental determination expiration, effect EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES
15. 04.050 See also EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES,
Purpose of provisions 15. 04. 010 DEPOSITS
State regulations, adoption 15. 04. 020 Required, establishment 17. 52. 100
EROSION EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES,
See GRADING, EROSION CONTROL DEPOSITS
ESTATES ZONE
Due when, establishment 17. 52. 020
Exempt entities designated 17. 52. 040
See E- 1 ESTATES ZONE
EXCAVATION
EXPLOSIVES
See FIRE CODE
See also GRADING, EROSION CONTROL
Backfilling, procedure, specifications 17. 52.220 F _
Barrier, warning devices required, requirements
17. 52. 140
Cleanup, scope, regulations 17. 52.230 FAIR
Completion, requirements generally 17. 52.240 Temporary use, permit, requirements
Costs, charging, basis 17. 53. 050 generally 18. 76. 010
Definitions 17. 52. 010
Depth, minimum 17. 52. 130
7 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
reimbursement charge 19. 08. 100
FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES Subdivision, boundary adjustment plat filing
Appeal, Termination, Revocation 18. 88. 090
17. 84.020
Application 18. 88. 050
Subdivision, drainage facilities, additional, fees
Definitions 18. 88. 020
17. 20. 110
Development, Operational Standards 18. 88.070 Subdivision, generally 17. 08. 130
Exclusions 18. 88. 030
Subdivision, park, recreational facilities
Findings for Approval of Minor Use Permit
17. 32. 020
18. 88.080 Subdivision, tentative map revision 17. 12. 140
Purpose 18. 88. 010 Surface mining permits 15. 16. 040
Review 18. 88.060 Swimming pool, spa, hot tub code permit
Use Chart 18. 88. 040
16. 36.030
Temporary use permit, administrative,
FEES processing fee 18. 76. 020
Bridges, major thoroughfare construction
Waiver 18. 04. 040
17. 48. 100
Zoning changes filing fees 18. 04. 030
Zoning variance, application filing 18. 74. 240
Building code permits, plans fees 16. 08. 080
Zoning variance, minor, application fees
Condominium housing permit application fees
18. 74.260
18. 60.020
Development agreement filing, permit fees
FENCES, WALLS
18. 68. 110
See also SCREENING REGULATIONS
Development impact fees 17. 60.050 17. 60. 090
Drainage facilities, local, planned 17. 40.030
Permitted when, regulations 18. 58. 370
Drainage fees, payment of 17. 40. 050
Barbed wire, 18. 02. 300
Electrical code permit, plan checking fees
16. 28.030 FIRE CODE
Encroachment permit, issuance fee 19. 16. 110 Administration 16. 40. 130
Excavation permit 17. 52. 020 Adoption 16. 40.010
Filing 18. 04.030 Appeals 16. 40. 130
Fire fighting costs recover 16. 40.080 Appendix B Fire flow requirements16. 40. 150
General plan interpretation appeals filing fee Appendix F Hazard ranking 16. 40. 160
18. 48.040 Combustible materials 16. 40. 080
Grading, erosion control, geotechnical reports Definitions and abbreviations 16. 40.030
review fees 17. 56. 240 Dumping of waste material 16. 40. 070
Grading, erosion control, plan- checking fees Establishment of limits of districts in which bulk
17. 56.230 storage of liquefied petroleum gases is to be
Grading permit 17. 56.070, 17. 56. 250 restricted 16. 40. 120
Home occupation, permit, appeals 18. 58.480 Establishment of limits of districts in which
Minor subdivision, application fees 17. 76. 030 storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
Minor subdivision, improvements construction, outside aboveground tanks is to be prohibited
in- lieu fee 17. 76. 240 16. 40. 110
Minor use permit application fees 18. 74.260 Establishment of limits of districts in which
Plumbing code, inspection fees 16. 32. 040 storage of explosives and blasting agents is to
Refund 18. 04. 140 be prohibited 16. 40. 100
PRD zone permit application fees 18. 24. 100 Fire apparatus access roads, required access
Q zone site development plan application 16. 40.040
18. 16. 060 Fire Department access 16. 40. 040
Sign permit 18. 52. 020 Fire Department access and water supply
Site development plan 18. 64. 160 16. 40.040
SP zone application fees 18. 22. 140 Fire extinguishing systems 16. 40. 040
Special use permit application filing 18. 74.240 Fire Prevention Division, establishment and
Street improvements, costs reimbursement duties 16. 40. 020
charge 16. 56. 150 Fire protection systems and equipment
Street improvements, permit 19. 08. 030 16. 40.050
Street improvements, supplemental, Fire safety during construction and demolition
8 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
16. 40.060 18. 26.060
Fire flow, modifications, factors 16. 40. 150 Definitions 18. 26.020
Hazardous materials management plan and Established 18. 06. 010
hazardous materials inventory statements Permitted uses, designation 18. 26. 040
16. 40. 160 Permitted uses, floodway restrictions 18. 26. 050
Storage and processing of wood chips, hogged Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 26.010
materials, fines, compost and raw product in
association with yard waste and recycling G _
facilities 16. 40. 070
Street naming and signs 16. 40. 040
GAS STATION
Tanks for gravity discharge 16. 40.040
See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION
Water supplies and fire hydrants 16. 40.040
FIREWORKS SHOW GENERAL PLAN
Temporary use, permit, requirements generally
Adoption, contents, Statutory authority
18. 76.010
18. 48.010
Amendments 18. 48.020
FLOOD AREA CONSTRUCTION
Conformance 18. 48. 030
REGULATIONS
Interpretation, appeals 18. 48. 040
See also FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL
Conditions of approval 17. 56. 130
Abrogation and greater restrictions 16. 48.090
Definitions 17. 56.040
Appeals 16. 48.200
Denial of permit 17. 56. 080
Basis for establishing the areas of special flood
Design standards, cut-and- fill setbacks
hazard 16. 48.070
Design standards, cuts and excavations
Compliance 16. 48. 080
17. 56.280
Conditions for variances 16. 48. 210
Design standards, drainage
Construction, standards 16. 48. 150
Design standards, erosion and sediment control
Definitions 16. 48.050
17. 56.330
Development Permit required 16. 48. 120
Design standards, fill 17. 56. 290
Floodplain Administrator, designation of Design standards, terraces 17. 56. 320
16. 48. 130
Depositing materials upon public or private
Floodplain Administrator, duties and property 17. 56. 340
responsibilities 16. 48. 140
Engineered grading requirements during
Findings of fact 16. 48.020
construction 17. 56. 190
Floodways 16. 48. 190
Erosion control security 17. 56. 270 Interpretation 16. 48. 100
General and minor grading requirements during
Lands to which this ordinance applies 16. 48.060
construction 17. 56. 180
Manufactured homes, standards 16. 48. 180
Grading permit fee 17. 56. 250
Methods of reducing flood losses 16. 48.040
Guarantees 17. 56. 260
Severability 16. 48. 220
Hazards 17. 56. 050
Statement of purpose 16. 48.030
Hours of operation 17. 56. 360
Statutory authorization 16. 48. 010
Interpretation 17. 56. 030
Subdivisions, standards 16. 48. 170
Liability 17. 56. 140
Utilities, standards 16. 48. 160
Limitations 17. 56. 120
Warning and disclaimer of liability 16. 48. 110
Maintenance of protective devices 17. 56. 170
Warning, liability disclaimer 16. 48. 110
Notification of completion 17. 56. 200
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
Permit application, plans, specification and
reports required 17. 56. 070
See FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE Permit issuance 17. 56.090
Permit authorization 17. 56. 100
FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE Permit requirements 17. 56. 060
See also ZONES Plan checking fees 17. 56. 230
Applicability of provisions 18. 26. 030 Prohibitions 17. 56. 380
Certificate of compliance, requirements Protection of adjacent property 17. 56. 160
9 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Protection of utilities 17. 56. 150 19. 12. 070
Purpose 17. 56. 010 Purpose of provisions 19. 12. 010
Refunds 17. 56. 350 Reports, recommendations 19. 12. 040
Replacement of engineers 17. 56.370 Resolution of intention, hearing, notice
Responsibility for compliance with plans and 19. 12. 060
requirements 17. 56.220 Standards 16. 56. 142
Review of geotechnical reports fee 17. 56. 240
Safety precautions 17. 56. 210 HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Scope 17. 56. 020 Appeals 15. 12. 160
Violation, penalty 17. 56. 390 Boundaries and Areas of Application 15. 12. 020
Certificates of Appropriateness applicability
GRADING PERMIT FEES 15. 12. 080
See also GRADING, EROSION CONTROL Certificates of Appropriateness criteria
FEES 15. 12. 100
Designated 17. 56. 250 Certificates of Appropriateness procedures and
review 15. 12. 090
GRADING PERMIT ISSUANCE Definitions 15. 12. 030
Additional permits, requirements not relieved Duty to keep in good repair 15. 12. 130
17. 56. 110 Enforcement, restitution, penalties 15. 12. 170
Authorization, scope 17. 56. 100 Environmental Review 15. 12. 040
When, separate permit each site 17. 56. 090 Existing improvements 15. 12. 150
Historic Preservation Commission 15. 12. 050
GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS
Historic Preservation Incentives Agreements
CODE
15. 12. 110
Historic Preservation Incentives  parking
Adoption 16. 30. 010 reductions/ waivers 15. 12. 120
Historic Preservation Incentives exemptions
GUESTHOUSE 15. 12. 120
Definition 18. 02. 325 Historic Resource Designation Procedures
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 110 15. 12. 070
A- 1 zone permitted use 18. 08.010c Maintenance and Repair 15. 12. 140
E- 1 zone permitted use 18. 10. 010c Purpose, intent of provisions 15. 12. 010
R- 1 zone SUP refund 18. 28. 010k2 Register of Designated Historic Resources
15. 12. 060
H -
HOME OCCUPATIONS
HAZARDOUS WATER FACILITIES Rules, regulations generally 18. 58. 480
Appeal of City Council decision 18. 75. 110
Definition 18. 02. 335
Applicability 18. 75. 010
Consultant and mediator fees 18. 75. 080 HOUSE NUMBERS
Definitions 18. 75. 020 See BUILDING, HOUSE NUMBERS
Hearing process 18. 75. 100
Initial consulting determination 18. 75.090 HOUSING ADVISORY, APPEALS
Local assessment committee 18. 75. 050 BOARD
Negotiation process 18. 75. 070 Established, purpose 16. 12. 030
Notice of intent to apply 18. 75.030
Notice of permit application 18. 75.060 HOUSING CODE
Public meeting 18. 75. 040
Adoption, on file 16. 12. 010
HILLSIDE STREET DECLARATIONS
Definitions 16. 12. 020
Interpretation, appeals 16. 12. 030
Definitions 19. 12. 020 Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010
Designation 19. 12. 140
Determination 19. 12. 050 HOUSING CODE AMENDMENTS
Initiation, procedure, authority 19. 12. 030
Section 203 16. 12. 030
Protests, objections, hearing, decision, effect
10 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Public education and model homes 18. 56. 120
Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 56. 010
Recycled/ reclaimed water 18. 56. 130
Soil analysis, purpose 18. 56. 080
Violation, penalty 18. 56. 120
Wastewater prevention 18. 56. 140
INDUSTRIAL PARK ZONE
See IP INDUSTRIAL PARK ZONE LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
Automobile service station 18. 62.070
IP INDUSTRIAL PARK ZONE C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060
See also ZONES C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060
Development standards 18. 46. 010 C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
Established 18. 06.010 IP zone 18. 46. 060
Improvements, standards modification, O zone 18. 12. 170
conditions 18. 46. 080 O- P zone 18. 36. 130
Minor uses 18. 46. 040 O- R zone 18. 12. 170
Performance standards 18. 46. 070 Q zone 18. 16. 100
Permitted uses 18. 46. 020 Residential care home 18. 58. 100
Purpose of provisions 18. 46. 010 R- M zone 18. 34. 100
Special uses 18. 46. 030 SP zone 18. 14. 050
Uses, enclosure requirements 18. 46.050
LIGHTING MANUFACTURING ZONE
J - See M- 1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING ZONE
JUNK STORAGE LIGHTING REGULATIONS
Prohibitions, exceptions 18. 58. 540 Automobile service station 18. 62.070
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
LANDMARK Light poles, setback location permitted when
See HISTORIC LANDMARK
18. 58.280
O- P zone 18. 36. 130
LANDSCAPING Off-street parking spaces, facilities 18. 54. 180
See also FENCES, WALLS
Outdoor lighting facilities, fixtures 18. 58.260
SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
R- M zone 18. 34. 110
Adverse terrain, requirements when 18. 56. 080 Signs, generally 18. 52.040
Applicability of provisions 18. 56. 050
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
Approval of landscape installation 18. 56. 170
City's right to inspect 18. 56. 150
See FIRE CODE
Definitions 18. 56. 040
Exempt buildings, structures designated LOADING
18. 56.060 See OFF-STREET LOADING
Fees 18. 56. 190
Field observations 18. 56. 160 LODGE
Findings 18. 56.030 Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 080
Interests served 18. 56.020
Irrigation system required, requirements LOT AREA
18. 56.090 See BUILDING SITE AREA
Landscape, irrigation plans required,
requirements 18. 56. 080 LOT COVERAGE REGULATIONS
Landscape manual 18. 56. 070
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060
Limitations on use of water features 18. 56. 100
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060
Maintenance, standards 18. 56. 110
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
Performance guarantee, bond, security IP zone 18. 46. 060
requirements 18. 56. 180
11 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
O- P zone 18. 36. 120
R- 1 zone 18. 28. 070 MINOR SUBDIVISION
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 070 See also SUBDIVISION
Satellite antenna 18. 58. 500 Appeals 17. 76. 160
Applicability of provisions, exceptions 17. 76. 010
LOT DEPTH REGULATIONS Application, contents, fee 17. 76. 030
PRD zone 18. 24. 080 Monuments, lot flagging, requirements
17. 76.250
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
MINOR SUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS
Applicability 17. 84. 010 Exempt activities designated 17. 76. 220
Application for 17. 84. 020 Procedure generally 17. 76. 200
Approval, Conditions of 17. 84. 050
Approval, Requirements for 17. 84. 040 MINOR SUBDIVISION
Approval, Review, Notice 17. 84. 030 IMPROVEMENTS
Conditions, Fulfillment of 17. 84. 060
Construction agreement, security 17. 76. 210
Record of Survey 17. 84. 060
Exempt activities designated 17. 76. 220
LOT WIDTH REGULATIONS
Fee in lieu, when, use 17. 76. 240
Requirements generally 17. 76. 190
PRD zone 18. 24. 080 Road improvement district covenant required
when 17. 76. 230
M -
MINOR SUBDIVISION PARCEL MAP
M- 1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING Filing, time limits, extension, appeals 17. 76. 180
ZONE Waiver, permitted when 17. 76. 170
See also ZONES
Applicability of provisions 18. 18. 030 MINOR SUBDIVISION TENTATIVE
Application, contents procedure, appeals PARCEL MAP
18. 18. 080 Application, inclusion 17. 76. 030
Application, requirements generally 18. 18. 050 Replacement, required when 17. 76. 080
Designation, permitted where 18. 18. 040 Required, prerequisite to parcel map 17. 76. 020
Development standards 18. 18. 090 Requirements, modification, waiver when
Established 18. 06.010, 18. 18. 020 17. 76. 150
Mobile home park removal, rezone, phase- out Revision, procedure 17. 76. 090
plan when 18. 18. 060
Permitted uses 18. 18. 070 MINOR SUBDIVISION TENTATIVE
Purpose of provisions 18. 18. 010
pQRCEL MAP APPROVAL
MARIJUANA
Decision, notice 17. 76. 130
Disapproval, criteria 17. 76. 140
Land Use 18. 02. 448
Planning director, duties, delegation 17. 76. 110
Business use throughout city 18. 06. 107
Planning director, duties generally 17. 76. 100
Specific plan 18. 06. 108
Public agencies, utilities, reports,
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS AND
recommendations 17. 76. 120
MASSAGE THERAPISTS MINOR SUBDIVISION TENTATIVE
Definitions 5. 56. 030 PARCEL MAP CONTENTS
Permit Required 5. 56. 040
Grading plan 17. 76. 050
Purpose and intent 5. 56. 020
Requirements generally 17. 76. 040
MECHANICAL CODE
Sewer, sewage disposal system certificate
17. 76.070
Adoption 16. 18. 010 Soils report 17. 76. 060
MINING
See SURFACE MINING
12 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
MINOR USE PERMIT See MHP MOBILEHOME PARK OVERLAY
See also MINOR USES ZONE
ZONING PERMIT
Animals 18. 66. 050 MOBILEHOME SUBDIVISION
Application, hearing, procedure 18. 74. 270 See also CONDOMINIUM HOUSING
Aviary 18. 66. 060 SUBDIVISION STREETS, PRIVATE
Chinchilla raising 18. 66. 070 ACCESS
Club, lounge 18. 66. 080 Rules, regulations generally 18. 60. 090
Commercial coach, sue within city 18. 66. 090,
18. 70.040 MOBILEHOME, USE WITHIN CITY
Day care, children boarding 18. 66. 100 Applicability of provisions 18. 70. 020
Eating facilities, outdoor 18. 66. 120 Criteria, regulations 18. 70. 030
Guesthouse 18. 66. 110 Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 70. 010
Motor vehicle, trailer rental, leasing 18. 66. 170
Park 18. 66. 130 MONUMENTS
Recreational facilities 18. 66. 150
See EXCAVATION
Recycling processing facilities 18. 66. 160
MINOR SUBDIVISION
Rules, regulations, procedure generally MONUMENTS
18. 74.260
School 18. 66. 180
MOTOR VEHICLE RENTAL, LEASING
Special land uses 18. 66.020
Subdivision signs 18. 66. 190
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 170
Transit shelter, private property, residentially
zones 18. 58. 570 MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE YARD
Prohibitions, exceptions 18. 58. 540
MINOR USES
See also MINOR USE PERMIT MULTI- RESIDENTIAL ZONE
ZONING USES See R- M MULTI- RESIDENTIAL ZONE
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 030
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 040 M- U MIXED USE ZONE
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 030 Affordable housing 18. 35.090
IP zone 18. 46. 040 Definitions 18. 35.020
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 030 Density designation 18. 35. 070
O- P zone 18. 36.030 Development standards 18. 35. 080
Minor uses 18. 35. 050
MIXED USE ZONE Permitted uses 18. 35. 030
See M- U MIXED USE ZONE Purpose 18. 35. 010
Special uses 18. 35. 040
MOBILEHOME PARK CONVERSION Temporary uses 18. 35. 060
See also CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION
Sale to tenants when, effect 18. 70. 120 N "
MOBILEHOME PARK CONVERSION NEWSRACKS ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OFIMPACT
REPORT WAY
Approval, disapproval, conditions 18. 70.090 Abandonment 19. 18. 110
Contents 18. 70. 060 Appeal 19. 18. 090
Filing, time limits 18. 70. 070 Applicability in residential zones 19. 18. 070
Provisions cumulative 18. 70. 110 Constitutionality 19. 18. 130
Required when 18. 70. 050 Definitions 19. 18. 020
Review, recommendations 18. 70. 080 Enforcement 19. 18. 080
Statutory regulations, applicability 18. 70. 100 Location of newsracks 19. 18. 060
Permit required 19. 18. 050
MOBILEHOME PARK OVERLAY Prohibition 19. 18. 030
ZONE
Public nuisance 19. 18. 100
Purpose 19. 18. 010
13 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Standards for newsracks 19. 18. 040 Definitions 18. 54.040
Violations 19. 18. 120 Exemptions, designated buildings, structures
18. 54.030
NONCONFORMING BUILDING IP zone 18. 46. 060
See also NONCONFORMING USES Required when, requirements generally,
Abatement, date, setting when 18. 72. 110 applicability 18. 54. 020
Abatement, prerequisite to new conforming use SP zone 18. 14. 050
18. 72. 120 Spaces, requirements generally 18. 54. 070
Abatement, required when, amortization
schedule 18. 72. 100 OFF-STREET PARKING
Alteration, enlargement, restrictions 18. 72.040 Automobile service station 18. 62.070
Applicability of provisions 18. 72. 080 Definitions 18. 54.030
Destruction, reconstruction, restrictions Enforcement, scope, applicability 18. 54. 190
18. 72.070 Exemptions, designated buildings, structures
Maintenance, restrictions generally 18. 72. 030 18. 54.030
Utility buildings, structures, exemption when IP zone 18. 46. 060
18. 72. 130 MHP zone 18. 18. 090
PRD zone 18. 24. 080
NONCONFORMING USES Purpose of provisions 18. 54. 010
Abatement, prerequisite to new conforming use SP zone 18. 14. 050
18. 72. 120
Applicability of provisions 18. 72. 080 OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES
Building, conforming, continuance, restrictions See also Specific Subject
abatement when 18. 72. 050 Development standards 18. 54. 120
Building, nonconforming, continuance, Enforcement, scope, applicability 18. 54. 190
restrictions 18. 72.060 Handicapped spaces 18. 54. 120
Continuance, limitations 18. 72. 020 Lighting regulations 18. 54. 180
Expansion, extension, restrictions 18. 72.010 Location 18. 54. 100
Modification requirements, special or
NUISANCE minor use permit 18. 54. 140
Bar, cocktail lounge, nonconforming, when Reciprocal, permitted when, regulations
18. 72.050 18. 54. 130
Grading, erosion control provisions violation Required when, requirements generally,
17. 56.390 applicability 18. 54.020
Pet, when 18. 58. 090
Zoning provisions violation 18. 82. 030, OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE
18. 82.040 REQUIREMENTS
Bicycles 18. 54. 080
0 - Changed, converted uses 18. 54. 060
Commercial vehicles 18. 54. 170
O OPEN SPACE ZONE Development standards 18. 54. 120
See also OPEN SPACE ZONING DISTRICTS Enforcement, scope, applicability 18. 54. 190
ZONES Industrial developments 18. 54. 150
Building site area 18. 12. 040 Lighting regulations 18. 54. 180
Designation, adoption, procedure 18. 12. 020 Location 18. 54. 100
Established 18. 06.010 Mixed uses 18. 54. 110
Permitted uses 18. 12. 030 Modification permitted when 18. 54. 160
Residential structures permitted when Motorcycles 18. 54. 090
18. 12. 070 Number of spaces required 18. 54.050
Setback regulations 18. 12. 060
O- P OFFICE PROFESSIONAL ZONE
OFFICE- PROFESSIONAL ZONE See also ZONES
See O- P OFFICE- PROFESSIONAL ZONE Building height regulations 18. 36. 040
Building site area 18. 36. 080
OFF-STREET LOADING Buildings, accessory, restrictions 18. 36. 100
14 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Buildings, distance between 18. 36. 090 SECOND UNITS
Business, enclosure required 18. 36. 110 ZONES
Development standards 18. 36. 130 Building height regulations 18. 12. 110
Established 18. 06.010 Building site area 18. 12. 100
Lot coverage regulations 18. 36. 120 Designation, adoption, procedure 18. 12. 080
Minor uses 18. 36. 030 Established 18. 06. 010
Permitted uses 18. 36. 010 Permitted uses 18. 12. 090
Special uses 18. 36. 020 Setback regulations 18. 12. 120
Utilities undergrounding 18. 36. 140
Yard regulations, front yard 18. 36.050 OVERLAY ZONES
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 36.070 See FP FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
Yard regulations, side yard 18. 36. 060 MHP MOBILEHOME PARK OVERLAY
ZONE
OPEN SPACE REGULATIONS O- R OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL
Conformity, requirements generally 18. 06. 120 OVERLAY ZONE
PC zone 18. 22. 040 PC PLANNED COMMUNITY OVERLAY
PRD zone 18. 24. 080 ZONE
Q zone 18. 16. 100 PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL
Residential care home 18. 58. 100 DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
R- M zone 18. 34.090 Q QUALIFIED DEVELOPMENT
OVERLAY ZONE
OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL SC SCENIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
OVERLAY ZONE OVERLAY ZONE
See O- R OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL
OVERLAY ZONE P "
OPEN SPACE ZONE PARK EVENTS, PERMITS FOR
See O OPEN SPACE ZONE PARK EVENTS
Appeal and reconsideration 12. 13. 060
OPEN SPACE ZONING DISTRICTS Applicability, permit required for park events,
See also O OPEN SPACE ZONE exclusions 12. 13. 010
O- R OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL Definitions 12. 13. 020
OVERLAY ZONE Fees 12. 13. 100
ZONES Indemnification, security deposits 12. 13. 090
Building site area conformity 18. 12. 150 Insurance, exemption 12. 13. 100
Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 12. 200 Late applications 12. 13. 040
Environmental impact report, requirements Park event permit, content, restrictions,
18. 12. 190 limitations 12. 13. 070
Landscaping, regulations 18. 12. 170 Park event permits, application, information
Natural features, changing, prohibitions, required, timing 12. 13. 030
restrictions 18. 12. 140 Permits, standards for issuance or denial,
Permits, review, approval procedure 18. 12. 160 notification, regulations 12. 13. 050
Purpose of provisions 18. 12. 010 Revocation of permits 12. 13. 080
Utilities undergrounding 18. 12. 210
Variances, procedure 18. 12. 130 PARKING
Zoning changes, restrictions 18. 12. 180 See OFF-STREET PARKING
OPERATIONS USE PERMITS PARKING LOT SALES, SERVICES
Defined 18. 67. 010 Temporary use, rules, regulations, permit,
Procedure 18. 67. 020 procedure generally 18. 74. 260
O- R OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL PARKS
OVERLAY ZONE Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 130
See also OPEN SPACE ZONING DISTRICTS
15 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY Evaluation, criteria 18. 22. 090
OVERLAY ZONE Revision, procedure generally 18. 22. 110
See also ZONES
Submittal with application, requirements
Established 18. 06. 010
18. 22.030
Open space regulations 18. 22. 040
Permitted uses 18. 22. 020 pERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Purpose of provisions 18. 22. 010 IP zone 18. 46. 070
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY PERMIT
OVERLAY ZONE APPLICATION See also MINOR USE PERMIT
Fees 18. 22. 140
OPERATIONS USE PERMIT
Procedure generally, contents 18. 22. 030
SEASONAL USE PERMIT
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
OVERLAY ZONE DEVELOPMENT
ZONING PERMIT
Block Parties and Street Events 12. 12
PROGRAM Building, moved, 16. 08. 030
Contents, regulations generally 18. 22.070 Condominium housing 18. 60. 020
Evaluation, criteria 18. 22. 090 Electrical code work 16. 28. 030
Revision, procedure for master plan revision Encroachments, public right- of-way 19. 16. 020
18. 22. 100 Excavation 17. 52. 080
Flood hazard area development 16. 48. 120
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY Grading 17. 56. 060
OVERLAY ZONE DEVELOPMENT Home occupations 18. 58. 480
PROGRAM Mobile home, use within city 18. 70. 030
Park events 12. 13
Revision, procedure for specific plan revision
Plumbing code work 16. 32. 040
18. 22. 110
Recreational vehicle, use within city 18. 70.030
Revision, procedure generally 18. 22. 120
Satellite antenna 18. 58. 500, 18. 74. 260
Submittal with application, requirements
Signs 18. 52. 020
18. 22.030
Street improvements, generally 19. 08. 110
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY
Street improvements, residential driveway
19. 08.020
OVERLAY ZONE MAPS, REPORTS Surface mining 15. 16. 040
Contents, regulations generally 18. 22.080 Wastes, burning 16. 40. 190
Evaluation, criteria 18. 22. 090
Revision, procedure for master plan revision PERMITTED USES
18. 22. 100 See also MINOR USES
Revision, procedure for specific plan revision NONCONFORMING USES
18. 22. 110 PROHIBITED USES
Revision, procedure generally 18. 22. 130 SPECIAL LAND USES
Submittal with application, requirements SPECIAL USES
18. 22.030 ZONING USES
A- 1 zone 18. 10. 010
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY C- 1 zone 18. 38. 010
OVERLAY ZONE MASTER PLAN C- 2 zone 18. 40. 010
Contents, regulations generally 18. 22.080 C- 3 zone 18. 42. 010
Evaluation, criteria 18. 22. 090 E- 1 zone 18. 08. 010
Revision, procedure generally 18. 22. 100 FP zone 18. 26. 040
Submittal with application, requirements Home occupations 18. 58. 480
18. 22.030 IP zone 18. 46. 020
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 010
PC PLANNED COMMUNITY MHP zone 18. 18. 070
OVERLAY ZONE SPECIFIC PLAN
O zone 18. 12. 030
Contents, regulations generally 18. 22.060
O- P zone 18. 36. 010
16 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
O- R zone 18. 12. 090 Established 18. 06. 010, 18. 24. 040
PC zone 18. 22. 020 Findings, intent of provisions 18. 24. 010
PRD zone 18. 24. 070 Open areas, recreational facilities, requirements
Q zone 18. 16. 030 18. 24.090
R- 1 zone 18. 28. 010 Permitted uses 18. 24. 070
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 010 Purpose of provisions 18. 24. 020
R- M zone 18. 34.010
SP zone 18. 14. 040 PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL
SPI zone 18. 20. 040 DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
PETS
PERMIT
See also ANIMALS
Application, hearing procedure, appeals
Nuisance condition, abatement when,
18. 24. 110
procedure 18. 58. 090
Application, procedure generally, contents, fees
Number permitted, conditions 18. 58. 080
18. 24. 100
Extension when 18. 24. 150
PLANNED COMMUNITY OVERLAY
Modifications, procedure 18. 24. 130
Term, effective date, void when 18. 24. 140
ZONE
See PC PLANNED COMMUNITY OVERLAY PROFESSIONAL ZONE
ZONE See O- P OFFICE- PROFESSIONAL ZONE
PLANNED LOCAL DRAINAGE PROHIBITED USES
FACILITIES C- 1 zone 18. 38. 040
See DRAINAGE FACILITIES, LOCAL, C- 2 zone 18. 40. 050
PLANNED C- 3 zone 19. 42. 040
Generally 18. 58. 540
PLUMBING CODE Home occupations, designation 18. 58.480
Administrative authority designated 16. 32.020
Adoption, on file 16. 32. 010 PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES
Inspections, reinspections, fees 16. 32. 060 Temporary use, permit, requirements generally
Permit, fees, designation 16. 32. 040 18. 76.020
Permit, fees refund when 16. 32. 050
Sanitary facilities, requirements generally PUBLIC BUILDINGS, USES
16. 32.070 Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 140
Toilet, public, number required 16. 32. 090
Toilet, public, requirements 16. 32.080 PUBLIC EASEMENTS
Violation, penalty 16. 32. 030, 16. 64. 010
City Engineer Authority 17. 20. 140; 17. 64. 020
PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL pUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION
DEVELOPMENTAL OVERLAY Adoption of standard specifications 16. 04. 010
ZONE Filing of copies 16. 04. 020
See also ZONES Adoption of San Diego Area Regional Standard
Applicability of provisions, criteria 18. 24. 050 Drawings 16. 04. 030
Definitions 18. 24.030 Filing of copies of standard drawings 16. 04. 040
Density regulations 18. 24. 060
Development standards, designation 18. 24. 080 Q _
PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UALIFIED DEVELOPMENT
DEVELOPMENTAL OVERLAY OVERLAY ZONE
ZONE See also ZONES
Development standards, deviations, criteria Applicability of provisions 18. 16. 020
18. 24. 120 Building site area 18. 16. 110
17 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Development standards 18. 16. 100 Building site area 18. 30. 060
Established 18. 06.010 Established 18. 06. 010
Exempt activities designated 18. 16. 050 Lot coverage regulations 18. 30. 070
Permitted uses 18. 16. 030 Permitted uses 18. 30.010
Purpose of provisions 18. 16. 010 Utilities undergrounding 18. 30. 080
Q QUALIFIED DEVELOPMENT Yard regulations, front yard 18. 30.030
OVERLAY ZONE SITE
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 30.050
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Yard regulations, side yard 18. 30. 040
Appeals, filing, effect 18. 16. 150 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
Appeals, procedure 18. 16. 160
Appeal of determination 18. 86. 060
Approval, conditions, criteria 18. 16. 140
Applicability 18. 86. 020
Approval, disapproval, criteria 18. 16. 090
Application requirements 18. 86. 030
Combined proceedings when, effect 18. 16. 130
Findings and decision 18. 86. 050
Conditions, scope, variances 18. 16. 120
Purpose 18. 86. 010
Decision, effective date 18. 16. 150
Review authority and procedure 18. 86. 040
Expiration, effect 18. 16. 180
Final, requirements 18. 16. 170
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Hearing, notice 18. 16. 080
Required when 18. 16. 040
See also PARKS
SUBDIVISION PARK,
Q QUALIFIED DEVELOPMENT
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
OVERLAY ZONE SITE
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 150
DEVELOPMENT PLAN RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, USE
APPLICATION WITHIN CITY
Consideration, recommendations 18. 16. 070 Applicability of provisions 18. 70. 020
Contents, fee, procedure generally 18. 16. 060 Criteria, regulations 18. 70. 030
Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 70. 010
QUALIFIED DEVELOPMENT
OVERLAY ZONE RECYCLABLES SCAVAGING
See Q QUALIFIED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY Additional methods of disposal 15. 08. 050
ZONE Collection by unauthorized persons 15. 08. 040
Definitions 15. 08.020
R _ Enforcement 15. 08. 060
Purpose 15. 08. 010
R- 1 RESIDENCE ZONE Separation of recyclable materials 15. 08. 030
See also SINGLE- FAMILY SUBDIVISION
LOT AVERAGING ZONE RECYCLING PROCESSING
SECOND UNITS FACILITIES
Building height regulations 18. 28. 020 Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 160
Building site area 18. 28. 060
Established 18. 06.010 REFERENCED STANDARDS CODE
Lot coverage regulations 18. 28. 070
Adoption 16. 34.010
Permitted uses 18. 28. 010
Utilities undergrounding 18. 28. 080
REFUSE
Yard regulations, front yard 18. 28. 030
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 28.050 Burning, restrictions, permit requirements
Yard regulations, side yard 18. 28. 040
16. 40. 190
Dumping, rubbish dump, prohibitions 16. 40.200
R- 1- B RESIDENCE ZONE
REGULATIONS
See also ZONES
Building height regulations 18. 30. 020 Nonconformity non- permitted single family and
accessory buildings 18. 72. 140
18 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Voter approval, required 16. 60. 020
RELIGIOUS REVIVAL MEETING
Temporary use, permit, requirements generally RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
18. 76.010 OVERLAY
See PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
RESIDENCE ZONE
See MHP MOBILEHOME PARK OVERLAY REVERSION TO ACREAGE
ZONE See SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO
O- R OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL ACREAGE
OVERLAY ZONE
PRD PLANNED RESIDENTIAL R- M MULTI- RESIDENTIAL ZONE
DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE See also ZONES
R- 1 RESIDENCE ZONE Building height regulations 18. 34. 020
R- 1- B RESIDENCE ZONE Building site area 18. 34. 020
Density regulations 18. 34. 070
RESIDENTIAL CARE HOME Development standards 18. 34. 110
Rules, regulations generally 18. 58. 100 Dwellings, distance between 18. 34. 080
Established 18. 06. 010
RESIDENTIAL CODE Landscaping regulations 18. 34. 100
Adoption 16. 22.010 Lower income housing, requirements 18. 34. 120
Open space regulations 18. 34. 090
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY BONUSES
Permitted uses 18. 34. 010
Additional bonuses and concessions for day care
Yard regulations, front yard 18. 34.030
facilities 18. 90. 060
Yard regulations, rear yard 18. 34.050
Amount of density bonus 18. 90. 040
Yard regulations, side yard 18. 34. 040
Application process 18. 90. 070
RODEO
Decision, findings, conditions 18. 90. 080
Definitions 18. 90. 020 Temporary use, permit, requirements generally
Fees, expenses, reimbursement 18. 90. 090
18. 76.010
Number of concessions 18. 90.050
Projects eligible 18. 90. 030 S "
Purpose 18. 90. 010
Regulation, parking, interpretations, enforcement SATELLITE ANTENNA
18. 90. 100 Permit, rules, regulations generally, procedure,
appeals 18. 74. 260
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT Rules, regulations generally 18. 58. 500
See SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES, LAND
DEDICATION SCENIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
SCHOOL FACILITIES OVERLAY ZONE
OVERCROWDING FINDINGS See SP SCENIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT
OVERLAY ZONE
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
LIMITATIONS SCHOOL
Decisions, judicial review 16. 60. 070 Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 180
Design review guidelines, adoption, scope
16. 60.040 SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES
Designated 16. 60. 050 See also SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES, LAND
General plan community facilities element, DEDICATION
adoption, scope 16. 60. 030 Accounting, recordkeeping, report requirements
Modifications, procedure 16. 60. 080 16. 52. 160
Purpose, intent of provisions 16. 60. 010 Interim facilities, limitations 16. 52. 110
Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010 Small subdivisions, required when 16. 52. 090
Voter approval, criteria 16. 60. 060
19 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES, LAND SECOND UNIT REQUIREMENTS
DEDICATION Architectural style 18. 31. 080
See also SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES Development standards 18. 31. 050
SUBDIVISION SCHOOL SITE Fees, exactions requirements 18. 31. 090
DEDICATION Findings, approval of second unit 18. 31. 050
Amount, determination, standards 16. 52. 100 Height regulation 18. 31. 060
Certificate required 16. 52. 200 Inspection authority 18. 31. 100
Cessation when 16. 52. 170 Parking requirement 18. 31. 070
Definitions 16. 52. 030 Permitted use 18. 31. 010
Due date 16. 52. 190 Requirements for second unit 18. 31. 030
Preference, applicant indication 16. 52. 120 Size 18. 31. 040
Purpose, intent of provisions 16. 52. 020 Zones 18. 31. 020
Refund, return when 16. 52. 180
Required when, purpose 16. 52. 080 SETBACK REGULATIONS
Requirement determination, criteria 16. 52. 130 See also YARD REGULATIONS
Statutory authority of provisions 16. 52.010 Automobile service station 18. 62.070
Use, limitations 16. 52. 150 Buena Vista Creek, applicability 18. 58. 300
Use, schedule 16. 52. 140 Corner lots 18. 58. 170
Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010 Cul- de- sac street-end lot 18. 58. 210
IP zone 18. 46. 060
SCHOOL FACILITIES Light poles, setback location permitted when
OVERCROWDING FINDINGS 18. 58.280
See also SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES, LAND
Measurement, adjacent street, procedure
DEDICATION
18. 58.240
Notice, contents 16. 52. 060
O- R zone 18. 12. 120
Notice, review, concurrence determination
PRD zone 18. 24. 080
16. 52.070 Q zone 18. 16. 100
Required when, notice, concurrence
Road easements 18. 58. 190
determination 16. 52.050 Special, applicability, exceptions 18. 58.020
Residential development, school district
notification when 16. 52.040 SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
See STREET IMPROVEMENTS
SCREENING REGULATIONS
See also FENCES, WALLS SIDEWALK SALES, SERVICES
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060 Temporary use, rules, regulations, permit,
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060 procedure generally 18. 74. 260, 18. 76. 260
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
IP zone 18. 46. 060 SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS,
Off-street parking spaces, facilities 18. 54. 120 See also SIGN CODE
O- P zone 18. 36. 130 SIGN REGULATIONS
Residential care home 18. 58. 100 SUBDIVISION SIGNS
Satellite antenna 18. 58.500
SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS,
SEASONAL USE PERMITS REGULATIONS
Actions on Applications 18. 78. 060 Awning sign 18. 52. 020
Appeal 18. 78. 070 Canopy sign 18. 52. 020
Application 18. 78. 030 Design standards 18. 52. 050
Fees 18. 78. 040 Directional sign 18. 52. 020
Processing 18. 78. 050 Flags 18. 52. 020
Seasonal Use Permit 18. 78. 010 Freestanding or pole sign 18. 52. 020
Time Limits 18. 78. 020 Gathered use 18. 52.030
Housing complex sign 18. 52. 020
Hand held commercial sign display standards
20 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
18. 52.080 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Illuminated 18. 52.020 Actions on applications 18. 64. 070
Legal Nonconforming signs 18. 52. 150 Appeals 18. 64. 080
Mobile billboard prohibited 18. 52. 090 Conformance required 18. 64. 090
Monument sign 18. 52. 020 Exemptions 18. 64. 030
Neutral administration 18. 52. 040 Expiration and extension 18. 64. 100
Political sign 18. 52.020 Fees 18. 64. 110
Pole 18. 52.060 Pre- application conference procedure 18. 64. 040
Produce stand sign 18. 52. 060 Purpose and intent 18. 64. 010
Projecting sign 18. 52. 020 Review and evaluation procedure 18. 64. 060
Residential sign 18. 52. 020 Site development plan required 18. 64. 020
Service stations 18. 52. 060 Site development plan application procedure
Signs which do not require a sign permit 18. 64.050
18. 52. 120
Signs on City Property 18. 52. 080
Special provisions 18. 52. 050
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Temporary onsite sign 18. 52. 070
Temporary sign during campaign periods APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL
18. 52.020 Appeals, procedure 18. 64. 080
Temporary sign on project which is under Procedure, criteria generally 18. 64. 050
construction 18. 52. 020
Temporary sign on property which is for rent, SOLAR ENERGY
sale or lease 18. 52. 060 Adoption 16. 38. 010
Wall sign 18. 52.060 Part II added 16. 38. 020
Window sign 18. 52. 020 Violation and penalties 16. 38. 020
SIGN CODE, UNIFORM SP SCENIC PRESERVATION
Adopted, on file 16. 20.010 DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE
Definitions 16. 20.020 See also ZONES
Violation, penalty 16. 20. 040, 16. 64. 010 Applicability of provisions 18. 14. 030
Approvals, denials appeals, procedure
SIGN REGULATIONS 18. 14. 070
See also SIGN CODE Boundaries, map designation, procedure
SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS, 18. 14. 020
REGULATIONS Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 14. 080
SUBDIVISION SIGNS Conformance requirements, exceptions
Abandoned and illegal signs 18. 52. 140 18. 14. 100
Definitions 18. 52. 020 Development standards 18. 14. 050
Enforcement 18. 52. 130 Established 18. 06. 010
Legal Nonconforming signs 18. 52. 150 Permitted uses 18. 14. 040
Permit procedures 18. 52. 110 Purpose of provisions 18. 14. 010
Prohibited signs and sign restrictions 18. 52. 100 Review requirements, procedure 18. 14. 060
Purpose, objectives and findings 18. 52. 010 Variances, procedure 18. 14. 090
Severability 18. 52. 160
Sign classifications and regulations 18. 52. 060 SPECIAL LAND USES
Special provisions 18. 52. 050 Animals, regulations 18. 66. 050
Aviary, regulations 18. 66. 060
SINGLE- FAMILY SUBDIVISION LOT Chinchilla raising, regulations 18. 66. 070
AVERAGING Club, lodge, regulations 18. 66. 090
See also SUBDIVISION Commercial coach, regulations 18. 66. 090
Findings, required 18. 32.040 Conditions generally 18. 66. 040
Limitations generally 18. 32. 030 Day care, children boarding, regulations
Purpose of provisions 18. 32. 010 18. 66. 100
Regulations generally 18. 32. 020 Definitions 18. 66.010, 18. 66.020
Eating facilities, outdoor, regulations 18. 66. 120
21 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Guesthouse, regulations 18. 66. 110 Decision, notice 18. 74. 230
Motor vehicle, trailer rental, leasing, regulations Decision, scope 18. 74. 220
18. 66. 170 Filing, authorized persons designated 18. 74. 180
Parks, regulations 18. 66. 130 Filing, time limits, stay of proceedings when
Public buildings, uses, regulations 18. 66. 140 18. 74. 190
Recreational facilities, regulations 18. 66. 150 Hearing, notice 18. 74. 210
Recycling processing facilities, regulations Records transmittal when 18. 74. 200
18. 66. 170
Schools, regulations 18. 66. 180
Subdivision signs, regulations 18. 66. 190
SPECIAL LAND USES MINOR USE
SPECIAL USES
PERMIT
See also SPECIAL USE PERMIT
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 020
Application, approval procedures, conditions C- 2 zone 18. 40. 020
18. 66.030 C- 3 zone 18. 42. 020
Required when 18. 66. 020 IP zone 18. 46. 030
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 020
SPECIAL USE PERMIT M- U zone 18. 35. 40
See also SPECIAL USES O- P zone 18. 36. 020
ZONING CHANGES
ZONING PERMIT SPECIFIC PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
Adult entertainment establishment 18. 40. 110 ZONE
Automobile service station 18. 62.020
See SPI SPECIFIC PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
Building height regulations, exceeding 18. 58. 150
ZONE
Commercial building, sidewalk arcade 18. 58. 070
Modification, suspension, revocation when SPECIFIC PLAN LINES
18. 74.280
Motor vehicle salvage yard 18. 58.540
Bobier Drive, Anza Avenue, Mesa Avenue,
Off-street parking facilities, common 18. 54. 140
adopted, designated 19. 12. 120
Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 74. 010 Building, structure within, construction, building
Residential care home 18. 58. 100
permit prohibited 19. 12. 080
Rules, regulations generally 18. 74. 240 Building, structure within, nonconforming,
alteration, enlargement prohibitions,
SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION
exceptions, appeals 19. 12. 090
Cypress Drive, adopted, designated 19. 12. 110
Contents, authorized applicants designated
Definitions 19. 12. 020
18. 74. 130
Determination by City Council 19. 12. 050
Rules, regulations generally 18. 74. 240
North Santa Fe 19. 12. 030
SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION
Purpose of provisions 19. 12. 010
Setback lines, determination, order 19. 12. 050
HEARING Setback lines, zoning regulations applicability
Date, time limits 18. 74. 160 19. 12. 100
Effective date 18. 74. 190
Findings, required, prerequisite 18. 74. 120 SPECIFIC PLAN LINES
Notice 18. 74. 170 ESTABLISHMENT
SPECIAL USE PERMIT GRANT,
Initiation, procedure, authority 19. 12. 030
Protests, objections, hearing, decision, effect
DENIAL 19. 12. 070
Decision, time limits 18. 74. 160 Reports, recommendations 19. 12. 040
Effective date 18. 74. 190 Resolution of intention, hearing, notice 19. 12. 060
Notice 18. 74. 170
Permitted 18. 74. 120 SPECIFIC PLANS
See also SPI SPECIFIC PLAN
SPECIAL USE PERMIT GRANT, IMPLEMENTATION ZONE
DENIAL APPEALS Adoption, purpose of provisions 18. 50. 010
22 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Applicability, land reclassification, variances 19. 08.080
when 18. 58. 040 Precedence of title 17 16. 56. 170
Conformance required, requirements 18. 50.020 Reimbursement, from property benefited,
Implementation, zones other than SPI zone publicly constructed improvements 16. 56. 150
18. 20.050 Reimbursement, hearings publicly constructed
Variances, amendment required when 18. 50. 030 improvements 16. 56. 160
Required, when, regulations generally 16. 56. 010
SPEED BUMPS AND HUMPS Restoration of excavated streets 19. 08.014
On private property 16. 57. 080 Speed bumps 16. 56. 143
Standard, commercial/ industrial 16. 56. 141
SPI SPECIFIC PLAN Standards, designated 16. 56. 110
IMPLEMENTATION ZONE
Standards, deviations permitted when 16. 56. 120
See also ZONES
Standards, hillside streets 16. 56. 142
Standards, multi- family residential 16. 56. 140
Applicability of provisions 18. 20. 020
Standards, single- family residential 16. 56. 130
Development standards 18. 20. 030
Standards, specifications, conformance
Established 18. 06.010
19. 08.070
Permitted uses 18. 20. 040
Supplemental, reimbursement, charges,
Purpose of provisions 18. 20. 010
agreements, procedure 19. 08. 100
Specific plan implementation, other zones Supplemental, reimbursement, permitted when
18. 20.050
19. 08.090
SPRAY BOOTH STREET IMPROVEMENTS
See FIRE CODE
COMPLETION GUARANTEE
STREET EVENTS
Acceptance, effect 16. 56. 100
See Block Parties and Street Events 12. 12
Bonds, conditions 16. 56. 080
Bonds, types 16. 56. 070
Release, conditions 16. 56. 090
STREET IMPROVEMENTS Required when, types 16. 56. 070
See also ENCROACHMENTS, PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY STREET IMPROVEMENTS COSTS
HILLSIDE STREET DECLARATIONS City participation when 16. 56. 146
SPECIFIC PLAN LINES Reimbursement, charge, applicability, hearing
City participation allowed 16. 56. 145 16. 56. 160
City right to restore surface 19. 08. 016 Reimbursement, scope, applicability 16. 56. 150
Completion, failure work by city, costs 19. 08.060
Collector streets, prime arterials 16. 56. 144 STREET IMPROVEMENTS, LAND
Contractor, licensed, required when 19. 08. 040
DEDICATION
Dedication, improvement required 16. 56. 010
See also STREET LAND DEDICATION
Dedication, maximum area establish 16. 56.020
Dedication, procedure 16. 56. 050
Exemptions, minor work, when 16. 56.040
Dedication, time of completion 16. 56. 060 Exemptions, prior main building occupancy
Excavation of streets moratorium 19. 08. 012
16. 56.030
Exemptions, prior occupancy 16. 56. 030 Required when, regulations generally 16. 56. 010
Exemptions, minor work 16. 56.040 Violation, penalty 16. 64. 010
Deviations allowed 16. 56. 145
Guarantee, improvements complete 16. 56. 100 STREET IMPROVEMENTS PERMIT
Guarantee provisions 16. 56.090 Application, contents 19. 08. 040
Guarantee, release 16. 56. 090 Denial, grounds 19. 08. 060
Guarantee, types 16. 56. 070 Fees, deposits, amount 19. 08. 030
Hearings, reimbursement charges, publicly Required when, generally 19. 08. 010
constructed improvements 16. 56. 160 Required when, residential driveway 19. 08. 020
Indemnification of city 19. 08. 050
Moneys, deposit, refund when 19. 08. 110 STREET LAND DEDICATION
Nonconforming, approval permitted when See also STREET IMPROVEMENTS, LAND
23 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
DEDICATION See also BRIDGE, MAJOR
Acceptance, approval, effect 16. 56. 060 THOROUGHFARE
Amount, maximum 16. 56. 020 CONSTRUCTION FEES
Procedure generally 16. 56050 DRAINAGE FACILITIES,
LOCAL,
STREET NAMES PLANNED
See also FIRE CODE ADDRESS EXCAVATION
REQUIREMENTS FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Policy 19. 04. 040 MINOR SUBDIVISION
Private streets, regulations 19. 04.030 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION
Procedure 19. 04. 050 SINGLE- FAMILY SUBDIVISION
Public streets, regulations 19. 04.020 LOT AVERAGING
Purpose 19. 04. 010 Administrative authority, delegation authority
Purpose of provisions 19. 04. 010 17. 08. 120
Advisory agency, designation, duties generally
STREET STANDARDS, PRIVATE AND 7. os.o7o
DRIVEWAY
Appeals 17. 88.050
Applicability of provisions 17. 08. 030, 17. 08. 040
Access, mobile home parks 16. 57. 070
Compliance, determination, certificate issuance
Design standards, private streets 16. 57. 020
when 17. 88. 040
Development criteria, private streets 16. 57. 040
Definitions 17. 04. 010- 17. 04. 260
Private access, commercial or industrial
Design, requirements, regulations generally
developments 16. 57. 060
17. 16. 010
Private driveways 16. 57.090
Easements, improvement requirements
Private streets, prohibited 16. 57. 050
17. 24. 100
Scope of regulations 16. 57. 010
Exempt activities designated 17. 08. 030
Speed bumps, speed humps 16. 57. 080
Parcels, illegal, prohibitions 17. 08. 060
Standards, private streets 16. 57. 010
Parcels, inclusion, all portions 17. 08. 050
STREET TREES, SHRUBS AND
Sale, lease, prerequisites when 17. 08. 150
Taxes, special assessments, payment security.
PLANTS release when 17. 08. 090
Abatement by City 19. 24. 160 Title of provisions 17. 08. 010
Abatement of nuisance within public street Transit facilities, land dedication when 17. 20. 150
or right of way 19. 20. 170 Water, open space access, requirements
Abatement by Property Owner 19. 24. 150 17. 20. 120
Authority for replacing or planting additional street
Trees 19. 24. 110 SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY
Authority for City to trim or remove on private ADJUSTMENT
property19.24. 120
See LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
Definitions 19. 24.020
Chapter 17. 84)
Director of Public Works duties, powers, and
authority 19. 24. 050
SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY
Failure to abate by owner 19. 24. 160
Inspections 19. 24. 090 ADJUSTMENT PLAT
Liability for Injury 19. 24. 130 See LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
Master Street Plan 19. 24. 060 Chapter 17. 84)
Ownership of/Duties 19. 24. 040
Permit for removal 19. 24. 080 SUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS
Prohibitions 19. 24. 030 See also MINOR SUBDIVISION
Protection of trees during construction 19. 24. 070 FINAL MAP
Public Nuisance 19. 24. 140 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
Remedies cumulative 19. 24. 180 SUBDIVISION LAND
Title 19. 24. 010 RESERVATION
Trimming/ removal of hazardous trees 19. 24. 100 SUBDIVISION TRAILS
Easements, requirements 17. 20. 140
SUBDIVISION Requirements generally 17. 20. 010
24 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Installation, timing, guarantee 17. 24. 110
SUBDIVISION DRAINAGE FACILITIES Multi- family residential zones 17. 24. 160
See also DRAINAGE FACILITIES, LOCAL, Requirements generally 17. 24. 010
PLANNED Sewage disposal, sewer system, required when
Additional, fees 17. 20. 110 17. 24.040
Extension, requirements when 17. 20.090 Single-family residential zones, less than one-
Required when 17. 20. 080 half acre parcels 17. 24. 150
Specifications, conformance, modification when Single-family residential zones, one- half acre or
17. 24. 190 larger parcels 17. 24. 140
Storm runoff requirements 17. 20. 100 Specifications, conformance, modification
when 17. 24. 190
Standards, interpretation 17. 24. 200
SUBDIVISION FEES Utilities, requirements generally 17. 24.050
Computation, future streets exclusion 17. 08. 140 Zoning requirements, compliance 17. 24. 130
Establishment, applicability 17. 08. 130
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS,
SUBDIVISION FINAL MAP SUPPLEMENTAL
See also SUBDIVISION MAPS See also BRIDGE, MAJOR
SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO THOROUGHFARE
ACREAGE MAP CONSTRUCTION FEES
Approval criteria, condominiums, community Reimbursement charges, applicability, procedure
apartments, stock cooperatives 17. 68. 070 17. 36.060
Approval criteria, generally 17. 68.020 Required when, scope 17. 36. 050
Conformance requirements 17. 68. 010 Sewerage facilities, bridges, major
Corrections, amendments, procedure generally thoroughfares, construction, reimbursement
17. 08. 100 agreement when 17. 36.070
Dedications, offering 17. 68. 040
Filing, approval required, criteria 17. 68. 020 SUBDIVISION LAND RESERVATION
Filing, portion permitted when 17. 68. 030 See also SUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS
Filing, preparation, procedure 17. 68. 080 Acquisition, procedure 17. 28.030
Recordation, time limits 17. 68. 060 Acquisition, purchase price 17. 28. 040
Waiver when 17. 12. 150 Amount, determination, criteria 17. 28.020
Purpose, requirements generally 17. 28. 010
SUBDIVISION FINAL MAP Termination when 17. 28. 050
CERTIFICATES
Open space easements, grant 17. 68.050 SUBDIVISION LOTS
Requirements generally 17. 68. 090 See also Specific Subject
Title company, guarantee in lieu 17. 68. 110 Design, private street access 17. 16. 020
Title company, requirements, report 17. 68. 100 Design, requirements, regulations generally
17. 16. 010
SUBDIVISION GRADING Flagging, required when 17. 12. 100
See also GRADING, EROSION CONTROL
Regulations generally 17. 24. 080 SUBDIVISION MAPS
See also Specific Minor Subdivision Map
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS Specific Subdivision Map
See also Specific Improvements
CONDOMINIUM HOUSING
MINOR SUBDIVISION
Amendments, recordation, requirements
IMPROVEMENTS
17. 08. 110
Commercial, industrial zones 17. 24. 170 Filed, conflicting provision, resolution 17. 08. 180
Construction agreements, plans, specifications
inclusion 17. 24. 220 SUBDIVISION MERGER
Covenants for easements 17. 08. 190 See also SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO
Installation, remainder parcels, requirements ACREAGE
17. 24. 120 Exempt lots designated 17. 08. 160
25 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
SUBDIVISION MONUMENTS 17. 32. 120
See also EXCAVATION Dwelling units, number, type, determination
MINOR SUBDIVISION 17. 32.060
Additional, purpose, required when 17. 44. 040 Exempt activities, entities designated 17. 32. 160
Deferral, final map, criteria 17. 44.050 Implementation, regulations promulgation
Deferral, parcel map, prohibited 17. 44. 060 17. 32. 150
Required, placement time 17. 44. 010 Preference, specification when, procedure
Specifications, boundary monuments 17. 44. 020 17. 32.040
Specifications, parcel corner monuments Procedure generally, appeals 17. 32. 130
17. 44.030 Required, applicability 17. 32. 020
Statutory authority of provisions 17. 32. 010
SUBDIVISION PARCEL MAP
See also SUBDIVISION MAPS SUBDIVISION PARK, RECREATIONAL
Conformance requirements 17. 64. 010 FACILITIES FEES, LAND DEDICATION
Corrections, amendments, procedure generally AMOUNT
17. 08. 100 Criteria, generally 17. 32.090
Filing, approval required 17. 64.020 Criteria, subdivision not in general plan area
Filing, portion of tentative parcel map, prohibited 17. 32. 100
17. 64.060 Determination, procedure 17. 32. 110
Flood areas, identification 17. 64. 030
Streets, identification 17. 64. 040 SUBDIVISION PARK, RECREATIONAL
Streets, private road easements, delineation
FACILITIES LAND DEDICATION
17. 65.050
See also SUBDIVISION PARK,
SUBDIVISION PARCEL MAP
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
CERTIFICATES
FEES, LAND DEDICATION
Amount, determination, formula 17. 32. 050
Owner's title company's certificates, guarantees Amount, standards designated 17. 32. 030
17. 64.090
Requirements generally 17. 64. 070 SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO
Stamping, printing, requirements 17. 64. 080
qCREAGE
Effective date 17. 80.080
SUBDIVISION PARK, RECREATIONAL
Initiation, by city council, procedure 17. 80. 030
Initiation, by owner, procedure 17. 80. 020
FACILITIES Procedure generally 17. 80. 010
See also Specific Subject
Acquisition, development, commencement when SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO
17. 32. 140 ACREAGE FINAL MAP
Delivery to county recorder 17. 80. 070
SUBDIVISION PARK, RECREATIONAL Filing, effect 17. 80. 080
FACILITIES FEES Filing, fees deposits refund, securities release
See also SUBDIVISION PARK, when 17. 80. 060
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES FEES,
LAND DEDICATION SUBDIVISION REVERSION TO
In lieu of land, payment when 17. 32.070 ACREAGE PETITION
Use, limitations 17. 32.080
Data, requirements 17. 80. 040
Form, contents generally 17. 80. 020
SUBDIVISION PARK, RECREATIONAL Hearing 17. 80. 050
FACILITIES FEES, LAND DEDICATION
See also SUBDIVISION PARK, SUBDIVISION SCHOOL SITE
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES FEES DEDICATION
SUBDIVISION PARK,
See also SCHOOL FACILITIES FEES, LAND
RECREATION FACILITIES LAND
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
Acceptance, payments to subdivider 17. 36. 030
Credits, private open space, determination
26 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
Exemptions 17. 36. 040 SUBDIVISION TENTATIVE MAP
Procedure generally 17. 36. 020 See also SUBDIVISION MAPS
Required when 17. 36. 010 SUBDIVISION VESTING
TENTATIVE MAP
SUBDIVISION SIGNS Appeals, persons adversely affected 17. 12. 120
See also SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS, Appeals, subdivider, tenant 17. 12. 110
REGULATIONS Approval, disapproval, findings required
SIGN REGULATIONS 17. 12. 080
Classification, regulations 18. 52. 270 Approval, disapproval, procedure generally
Regulations generally 18. 66. 190 17. 12. 070
SUBDIVISION STREET Environmental impact review, requirements
IMPROVEMENTS 7. os.oso
See also STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Expiration, extension 17. 12. 030
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS Filing, lot flagging when 17. 12. 100
Collector, arterial streets 17. 24.210
Form, contents, conformance 17. 12. 020
Commercial, industrial zones 17. 24. 170 Grading plan, requirements 17. 12. 050
Flood control, drainage regulations, Hearing, required 17. 12. 030
conformance 17. 24.070
Required when, prerequisite when 17. 12. 010
Multi- family residential zones 17. 24. 160
Requirements modification, waiver when
Not required, private street, when 17. 24. 030
17. 12. 090
Not required, rejected street, when 17. 24.020
Revision, procedure, requirements 17. 12. 140
Private access, requirements 17. 24. 180
Soils report, requirements 17. 12. 060
Single- family residential zones, less than
Tenant impact, requirements when 17. 12. 040
one- half acre parcels 17. 24. 150
Waiver when 17. 12. 150
Single- family residential zones, one- half acre
or larger parcels 17. 24. 140 SUBDIVISION TENTATIVE PARCEL
Specifications, conformance, modification when MAP
17. 24190 See also SUBDIVISION MAPS
Standards, interpretation 17. 24. 200 Environmental impact review, requirements
Street lighting system, standards 17. 24. 060 17. 08.080
Street trees, requirements 17. 24. 090
Zoning requirements, compliance 17. 24. 130 SUBDIVISION TRAILS
See also SUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS
SUBDIVISION STREETS, PRIVATE Improvement requirements 17. 24. 100
ACCESS Requirement generally 17. 20. 130
See also STREET IMPROVEMENTS
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS SUBDIVISION VESTING TENTATIVE
Applicable lots designated, criteria 17. 16. 030 Mqp
Commercial, industrial subdivisions, regulations See also SUBDIVISION MAPS
17. 16. 040 Approval, expiration, extension 17. 72. 060
Mobile home park subdivision, regulations Consistency, requirements 17. 72. 030
17. 16. 050 Filing, contents, processing, procedure
Requirements, regulations generally 17. 16. 020 17. 72.050
Permitted when 17. 72.040
SUBDIVISION STREETS, PUBLIC Purpose, intent of provisions 17. 72. 020
See also Specific Subdivision Map Rights vested, time limits, extension 17. 72. 070
SUBDIVISION DEDICATIONS Statutory authority, citation of provisions
Abutting, width, generally 17. 20. 020 17. 72.010
Abutting, width, new streets 17. 20. 030
Boundary termination, requirements when SUBDIVISION VIOLATIONS
17. 20.050 Deed, contract voidability when 17. 08. 170
Extension, easement requirements 17. 20. 060 Notice, contents, hearing 17. 88. 020
Intersections, offsetting 17. 20. 070 Penalty 17. 88. 060
Width, requirements generally 17. 20.040 Permits, approvals, withholding when,
27 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
exceptions 17. 88. 030 procedure generally 18. 76. 020
Report required, investigation 17. 88. 010 Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 76. 030
Required, designated uses, procedure generally
SURFACE MINING 18. 76.010
Appeals 15. 16. 140 Rules, regulations, procedure generally
Definitions 15. 16. 020 18. 74.260
Exempt activities designated 15. 16. 030
Inspections, periodic, purpose 15. 16. 100
Purpose, intent of provisions 15. 16. 010
Violations, penalty 15. 16. 130
SURFACE MINING PERMITS,
TEMPORARY USES
RECLAMATION PLAN
See also TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
Rules, regulations, procedure generally
See also SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION 18. 74.260
PLAN
Environmental review, procedure 15. 16. 060 THOROUGHFARE CONSTRUCTION
Grant, approval, criteria 15. 16. 050
See BRIDGE, MAJOR THOROUGHFARE,
Issuance, conditions 15. 16. 070
CONSTRUCTION FEES
Public records, deemed, access 15. 16. 090
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS,
Required when, fees, exemptions 15. 16. 040
SUPPLEMENTAL
SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION TRAILER RENTAL, LEASING
See also SURFACE MINING PERMITS,
Special land use, regulations 18. 66. 170
RECLAMATION PLAN
Performance bond, requirements 15. 16. 080
TRANSIT SHELTER
SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION
See also SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS,
PLAN
REGULATIONS
Rules, regulations generally 18. 58. 570
Amendments, procedure 15. 16. 110
Variances, permitted when 15. 16. 120 TREES, STREET
SWIMMING POOL
See also STREET TREES, SHRUBS and
PLANTS Chapter 19. 24
Zoning regulations, conformance 18. 58.490
SWIMMING POOL, SPA, HOT TUB
CODE
Adoption, on file 16. 36. 010 UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT
Interpretation, alternative methods, appeals See also UTILITIES UNDERGROUNDING
16. 36.040
Definitions 19. 20.010
Permit, fees 16. 36. 030
Overhead facilities, exempt, designated
Violation, penalty 16. 36. 020, 16. 64. 010
19. 20.060
Overhead facilities, permitted, emergency,
SWIMMING POOL, SPA, HOT TUB unusual circumstances 19. 20. 050
CODE APPEALS BOARD Overhead facilities, unlawful when 19. 20. 040
Created, composition, appointment, Violation, penalty 19. 20. 130
qualifications 16. 06.040
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT
T - DESIGNATION
Necessity, hearing, notice 19. 20. 020
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT Notice to property owners, utility companies,
See also TEMPORARY USES contents, effect 19. 20. 070
ZONING PERMIT Resolution, contents, effect 19. 20.030
Administrative, required when, uses designated,
28 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
UTILITIES UNDERGROUNDING 18. 58.350
See also UNDERGROUNDING UTILITY Porch, platforms, uncovered, uncovered, side,
DISTRICT rear yards 18. 58. 340
A- 1 zone 18. 10. 070 Stairways 18. 58.330
Automobile service station 18. 62. 070
C- 1 zone 18. 38. 080 YARD REGULATIONS
C- 2 zone 18. 40. 080 See also SETBACK REGULATIONS
C- 3 zone 18. 42. 080 YARD, PROJECTIONS INTO,
E- 1 zone 18. 08. 070 REGULATIONS
Failure, service disconnection when 19. 20. 100 Building, accessory, location restrictions
IP zone 18. 46. 060 18. 58. 170
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 100 C- 1 zone 18. 38. 060
O zone 18. 12. 210 C- 2 zone 18. 40. 060
O- P zone 18. 36. 140 C- 3 zone 18. 42. 050
O- R zone 18. 12. 210 Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 58.220
PRD zone 18. 24. 080 Conformity, requirements generally 18. 06. 130
R- 1 zone 18. 28. 080 Generally 18. 58. 160
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 080 Lot abutting partial streets 18. 58.200
R- M zone 18. 34. 110 Measurement, adjacent street, procedure
Time limits, extension 19. 20. 120 18. 58.240
Violation, penalty 19. 20. 130 Modification, procedure 18. 58.250
Q zone 18. 16. 100
UTILITIES UNDERGROUNDING Satellite antenna 18. 58. 500
RESPONSIBILITIES Trees, shrubs, flowers, plants 18. 58. 380
City 19. 20. 110
Property owners 19. 20. 090 YARD REGULATIONS FRONT YARD
Utility companies 19. 20. 080 See also YARD, PROJECTIONS INTO,
REGULATIONS
V _ A- 1 zone 18. 10. 030
Cul- de- sac street-end lot 18. 58. 210
VARIANCE
E- 1 zone 18. 08. 030
IP zone 18. 46. 060
See Specific Subject M- 1 zone 18. 44. 050
Specific Zone MHP zone 18. 18. 090
ZONING VARIANCE Minimum, meeting 18. 58. 230
O- P zone 18. 36. 050
W - R- 1 zone 18. 28. 030
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 030
WALLS R- M zone 18. 34.030
See FENCES, WALLS
YARD REGULATIONS, REAR YARD
WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING
See also YARD, PROJECTIONS INTO,
REGULATIONS
See LANDSCAPING A- 1 zone 18. 10. 050
E- 1 zone 18. 08. 050
Y _ IP zone 18. 46. 060
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 070
YARD, PROJECTIONS INTO,
Measurement, areas applicable 18. 58. 390
MHP zone 18. 18. 090
REGULATIONS O- P zone 18. 36. 070
Building structure projections 18. 58. 290 R- 1 zone 18. 28. 050
Fire escapes 18. 58. 320 R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 150
Guard railings 18. 58. 360 R- M zone 18. 34.040
Patio projections, roofed 18. 58.310
Porch, platforms, uncovered, front yard
29 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
YARD REGULATIONS, SIDE YARD Ordinances, existing, continuance, supersession
See also YARD, PROJECTIONS INTO, when 18. 02. 020
REGULATIONS Purpose of provision 18. 02. 005
A- 1 zone 18. 10. 040 Second unit prohibited, exceptions 18. 06. 160
E- 1 zone 18. 08. 040 Title of provisions 18. 02. 010
IP zone 18. 46. 060 Utility lines, installation, effect of provisions
M- 1 zone 18. 44. 060 18. 58.060
MHP zone 18. 18. 090 Yard regulations, conformity 18. 06. 130
O- P zone 18. 36.060
R- 1 zone 18. 28. 040 ZONING ADJUSTMENTS
R- 1- B zone 18. 30. 040 Applicability, grant, procedure 18. 78. 020
R- M zone 18. 34.040 Established, purpose 18. 78. 010
Z -
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
ZONE BOUNDARIES Designated, office established, purpose
See also ZONING MAP
18. 74.250
Changes, procedure, map amendment when
Powers, duties generally 18. 74. 260
18. 06.040
ZONING AMENDMENT
Interpretation, determination 18. 06. 050
See also GENERAL PLAN
ZONES
ZONING CHANGES
See also Specific Zone
Initiation, procedure 18. 80. 020
ZONE BOUNDARIES
Permitted when, purpose 18. 80. 010
ZONING MAP
ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATION
Annexed, incorporated property, classification
18. 06.090
Initiation, authorized persons designated
Established, designated, purpose 18. 06.010
18. 80.020
Unclassified property, classification 18. 06. 070
Unincorporated property, pre- zoning, procedure ZONING AMENDMENT HEARING
18. 06.080 CITY COUNCIL
Action, conclusively 18. 80. 080
Action, time limits extension 18. 80. 100
ZONING Decision, requirements, announcement
See also Specific Subject
18. 80.070
GENERAL PLAN
Required when, notice 18. 80. 060
SPECIFIC PLAN LINES
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS ZONING AMENDMENT HEARING,
zoNEs PLANNING COMMISSION
Building height regulations, conformity 18. 06. 110 Action, conclusively 18. 80. 080
Building site regulations, conformity 18. 06. 140 Action, time limit extension 18. 80. 100
Clarification of provisions, procedure 18. 58. 030 Decision, notice 18. 80. 090
City projects 18. 04. 160 Decision, requirements, announcement
Compliance requirements 18. 06. 100 18. 80.070
Conflicting provisions, resolution 18. 58.220 Required when, notice 18. 80. 030
Definitions 18. 02. 040- 18. 02. 735
Enforcement of provision 18. 82. 010 ZONING CHANGES
General regulations, applicability 18. 58. 010 See also Specific Zoning Change Subject
Grammatical interpretation, numbers 18. 02. 035 Specific Zone
Grammatical interpretation, tenses 18. 02. 030 SPECIAL USE PERMIT
Headings not govern 18. 02. 025 ZONING AMENDMENT
Interpretation of provisions 18. 02. 015 ZONING VARIANCE
Open space regulations, conformity 18. 06. 120
Ordinance adjustment by zoning administrator
18. 74.260
30 6/ 28/2016
Vista Development Code Index
ZONING CHANGES APPLICATION SPECIAL LAND USES
Form, contents, compliance 18. 04. 010 SPECIAL USES
Investigation, scope, purpose 18. 04. 090 Classification, clarification, procedure 18. 58.030
Signatures, notice service evidence 18. 04. 020
Withdrawal, procedure, fees refund when ZONING VARIANCE
18. 04. 140 See also Specific Subject
Specific Zone
ZONING CHANGES APPROVAL ZONING ADJUSTMENTS
Recommendations, filing 18. 04. 120 ZONING CHANGES
Effective date 18. 74.080
ZONING CHANGES FILING FEES Grant, findings required 18. 74. 030
Establishment, scope 18. 04. 030
Permitted when, scope 18. 74. 020
Refund when 18. 04. 140
Purpose, intent of provisions 18. 74. 010
Waiver when 18. 04. 040 Rules, regulations generally 18. 74. 240
ZONING CHANGES HEARING ZONING VARIANCE APPLICATION
Authority designated 18. 04. 110
Contents 18. 74. 040
Combined proceedings, when 18. 04. 080
Continuance, procedure 18. 04. 130 ZONING VARIANCE APPLICATION
Date, setting 18. 04. 050 HEARING
Procedural rules 18. 04. 100 Date, time limits 18. 74. 060
Decision, effective date 18. 74.080
ZONING CHANGES HEARING Decision, scope, notice 18. 74. 070
NOTICE Notice 18. 74. 050
Combined proceedings, when 18. 04. 080
Contents, publication, notice service 18. 04. 060 ZONING VARIANCE DECISION
Wording, requirements generally 18. 04. 070 APPEALS
Hearing, decision, scope 18. 74. 110
ZONING MAP Hearing, notice, procedure generally 18. 74. 100
See also ZONE BOUNDARIES Procedure generally, authorized persons
Designated contents, amendments 18. 06. 020 designated 18. 74. 090
Division, subdivision, purpose, effect 18. 06. 030
ZONING VARIANCE, MINOR
Application, hearing, procedure 18. 74.270
Land use symbols, use 18. 06. 060 Rules, regulations, procedure generally
Unincorporated property, pre- zoning, 18. 74.260
requirements 18. 06. 080
ZONING VIOLATIONS
ZONING NONCONFORMITIES Nuisance, declaration, abatement 18. 82. 040
See NONCONFORMING BUILDING Nuisance, when 18. 82.030
NONCONFORMING USES Penalties 18. 82.020
Remedies cumulative 18. 82. 040
ZONING PERMIT Separate offense, each day 18. 82. 030
See also MINOR USE PERMIT
PERMIT
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
PRD zone 18. 24. 100
ZONING USES
See also MINOR USES
NONCONFORMING USES
PERMITTED USES
PROHIBITED USES
31 6/ 28/2016